Europe is heading towards central planning, moralizing potential allies away,
growing government ever so bigger and removing more and more responsibility from
the individual day by day.

Why is the individual responsibility important? Because individuals without
responsibilities end up being the least sophisticated players in the system,
eventually finding themselves subject to (their own) tyranny.

The modern age conditioned individuals and group think to believe that the world
and its problems emerge in some kind of black and white fashion. So that black
and white problems can be addressed with black and white solutions.

And the people fall for it. Over and over again. Social systems of head counts
higher than 150 do now usually operate under the fundamental believe that just
more money will solve any (black and white) problem while completely ignoring
underlying structures and mechanics at play.

They throw out capital with full hands, often in all kinds of directions,
proving they are actually nothing like capital allocators, and claim problems
are addressed. Meanwhile their proclaimed solution sparked (at least) two more
problems. Which are then not associated anymore.

Incumbents paralyze systems from the inside because their actual job has become
to defend their position, instead of overcoming the challenges that the intended
description of their position was once guiding at some point in the past.

And the people go along with it. As long as there is enough food in the
supermarkets and as long as there is enough Netflix on the internet, the
majority mob does not care about anything other than what is there, here and
now, and the latest virtue signaling trend, if anything.

The inherent lack of agility in our critical infrastructure, which includes
government itself, has been the source of relative stability over the past 80
years and will likely be our downfall once more over the next 80 years.

Conflict is central to evolution because ideas have to be contested. We may have
the chance to prevent mass violent conflict moving forward but there is no
guarantee for that and in some form or another force will be applied anyway.
Just to change anything.

The only thing that really matters in our world today is what you can do and
what you cannot do. It is not laws that matter at the end of the day, not
morale, not ethics, not kindness. The only thing that matters at scale is what
you can do and what you cannot do.

Anything else is preference. Yes, kindness might be a desirable preference most
of the time, until it isn't. And here again it becomes somewhat obvious that
most thinking in our world today happens in terms of black and white.

I believe fundamental reality emerges on a spectrum. And that implies
distributions of probabilities. If you do not understand what this means you are
one of the least sophisticated players.

And while that does not have to be a bad thing in itself, it might just be good
to understand who you are, what you can do, and what you cannot do.

If you are curious you can look at any system around you and ask yourself, how
likely is it that X or Y is true or false? But that requires you to be able to
hold on to at least two opposing thoughts at the same time. And again, that is
something that most people cannot do today.

I am writing this down to understand the world around me better. I see our
systems, the so called institutions to degrade and move in rather unfortunate
directions. And I just try to make sense of what is happening around me.

Maybe you notice that something around you is not quite right either. In that
case I am happy to take a look and try to help you get your mental models more
right than wrong. I am happy to put my money where my mouth is.
