What is liquidity? Any market relies on the ability to exchange value of any
kind. Financial markets rely on financial assets to be exchanged. If the
exchange of financial assets is quick and cheap at any meaningful price level,
such a market is described as being liquid or deep.  In the opposite case, it
may be rather hard to exchange certain assets in an illiquid market, if buyers
do not find sellers, or sellers do not find buyers for their respective assets.
Liquid markets have the property of frictionless exchange of value, while the
opposite is true for illiquid markets.  Comparing the stock market with the
housing market, it would often be reasonable to argue that stocks are more
liquid as houses for various reasons.  For instance, stocks may be tradable in
digital ways regardless of the physical locations of buyers and sellers and
without any meaningful time delay.  The housing market, rooted in the physical
world, requires buyers and seller to come together in the same physical location
in order to settle a trade.  These physical constraints, as well as legal and
regulatory friction, make the housing market lesser liquid compared to the stock
market, because the speed at which houses may change hands is often many orders
of magnitudes higher than the speed at which stocks may change hands in any
given second.

What is the rate of change? Looking at the current price of anything, we see a
snapshot type of value at a given point in time. These kind of absolute numbers
are often irrelevant, because over time, absolute numbers revert back to the
mean. Way more important than absolute numbers is the rate at which those
numbers change over time relative to their prior levels. An example of relevant
rate of change mechanics can be observed with the Federal Funds Rate. Usually an
increase in interest rates causes liquidity and thus risk appetite within
financial markets to decrease, which causes risk assets to be re-priced lower.
None of this is necessarily true, given the increases in interest rates have
been bigger and more meaningful over the past couple of months already. If this
had been the case, then further lower increases imply a lower rate of change,
and thus a slowdown in rate hikes, opening up the possibility for increased
future risk opportunities, making capital allocators believe that the worst is
behind us.

What are future expectations? The precise future of anything is unpredictable.
Given that meta-physical fact by today’s standards, humans have evolved with
abilities of anticipation and projection. Throwing a rock or spear at a specific
target has been critical along our bloodlines. If you could not kill an animal
or opponent for whatever reason you might as well have been removed from the
gene pool quickly thereafter. We developed intuitions and mental models, often
enshrined into muscle memory, in order to hit our targets. Financial markets are
amongst the most competitive arenas humans have ever created, and here, hit or
miss might make the difference between life and death. We can label the desire
to hit the most or to hit the hardest as MEV. One of the core principles of MEV
is front-running, which means to take advantage of a situation or insufficiency
before anyone else does. The core idea here is to reasonably believe of a
specific future state that, if positioned well now, can be taken advantage of
economically, given some model or hypothesis turns out to be true. Future
expectations may indicate how the rate of change causes us to arrive at a
certain state of the environment, at some point in the future, enabling us to be
positioned for what has yet to come. In that sense, capital allocators try to
front-run the competition using the most advanced models describing some
actionable future expectation.

What can you do now? Answering that question is left as exercise for the reader.
None of the above matters if you still don’t know what to do right now, given
the present market conditions and your own individual goals. None of the above
matters if you take any given system at face value. What you rather want to do
is to operate in the spirit of “all models are wrong, but some are useful”,
while cross-referencing the reasonable bits and pieces where they make most
sense to you. At the end of the day liquidity has to come from somewhere and the
most effective capital allocators perceive the world as what it is, from their
individual point of view.
