Everyone has some innate abilities, allowing us to arrive at certain conclusions
to certain problems rather easily. We look at a problem and know exactly what to
do.

Within controlled low stakes environments these innate qualities tend to serve
us well on a daily basis. They are pretty much fuzzy shortcuts for problems too
hard to solve in precise ways quickly.

The dark forest is not a controlled low stakes environment. Neither is any
market you play in. War, combat sports, trading, poker, investing and similar
disciplines require excellent strategic execution, and more often than not,
luck.

For the longest time I was of the believe that nature versus nurture is about 10
to 90, meaning that biology has only a fraction of importance assigned to it
compared with environmental factors when it comes to overcoming great
challenges.

This view of mine has changed learning from myself and others. There appear to
be three kinds of limitations humans face when standing in front of a challenge.

The first limitation is your instinct. The gut feeling you have. The fuzzy
shortcut you cultivate, willingly or not. The lowest effort emotional response
presenting itself whether you asked for it or not. Your instinct might be right.
But maybe, it isn't.

The second limitation is a case of impotence. The lack of tools, techniques,
strategies and knowledge. Like you stand in front of a foggy wall that you can
neither see through nor overcome. Standing here, you are at a loss of words
because you cannot even articulate the problem.

The third limitation is your sheer lack of will power. You simply do not want it
badly enough. You may think you want it. You may tell everyone you want it, for
whatever reason. And after all, we hear what you say, but we can see what you
do. Here, integrity breaks down.

Now, what do Senpai?

I think the most important thing in life is to understand what is most important
to you. You are simply better off knowing what you value and what you want in
life. Because this understanding increases your odds of defining a more concrete
goal to thrive towards to.

If you do not understand why you are here, you may just be mindlessly wandering
the planet, self consumed, wondering why butter is so expensive again. This is
not a judgement. There likely is no right or wrong. This may just be the result
of cause and effect.

But let's assume you know what you want, whether that is in private or business.
Your goal is your target destination, spanning across space and time and some
form of complexity spectrum. Notice the multi dimensional nature of your
individual challenge ahead.

While many ways lead to Rome, there are certain ways and best practices you may
want to consider in any given problem domain. The framing here is deliberately
abstract. For once because of transferability of what there is to learn. And
further to not get lost in minor details.

The latter is most observable in the most obscure ways in the majority of least
sophisticated players out there, and brings us back to limitation number one.
That is our inclination to fast "thinking", read reactionism, read instinct.

You may encounter people struggling in their respective environments drawing the
wildest conclusions for no apparent reason, highlighting peak cognitive
dissonance, always leaning into the mayhem they create for themselves and
others.

The least sophisticated players convince themselves to base their actions on
reasons they deem fundamental, while objectively they are not. Instead they are
misconstrued, anchored in the depths of broken souls. Souls so broken they
cannot even tell the difference.

The first limitation shows us that it is critical what facts we ought to pay
attention to and what line of thinking to apply to them.

Limitation number two is about overcoming future blindness. When you cannot see,
when there does not appear to be anywhere to go, just go through the motion of
making a single step. Just show up and make a move, regardless its direction.
Stationarity is death.

Key for countering the second limitation is gaining competence where it is
needed. Do the work. Ask questions. Run experiments. Bring change. You may not
address the first order objectives starting out, but your actions have
ramifications for second order consequences.

Limitation number three is about realizing that what you thought you wanted
wasn't what you wanted after all. That may be due to incorrect assumptions or
poorly chosen core values. Maybe you tried to live the dream of somebody else
who wasn't you.

At this point you need to take a long hard look in the mirror and reveal
yourself. One exercise here may be to look in the mirror and show a genuine
smile. If you are able to look yourself in the eyes and smile at yourself in the
most honest and joyful way, you are on track.

Life unfolds on distributions. Rinse and repeat. No matter what you are doing,
you may encounter one or many of the challenges described over and over again in
various permutations. Be aware and be diligent.

If anything it takes patience, humility and discipline to arrive at any
meaningful target destination.

Patience because it may take a while, read a lifetime. Humility because you may
do not have it or you do not want it badly enough. And discipline because you
have to show up every day, whether it's raining or not.

Concluding the fundamental principle, operating within adversarial environments,
nothing around you matters, but to make the right decision in the moment. The
right decision is not necessarily the perfect decision, because nothing like
that is likely to exist anyway.

All the stories you tell yourself to be true are not likely to be true at all,
but rather represent a model of the world, you constructed for yourself over
time. And chances are, you made some mistakes along the way.

If you want to overcome your own bias, the only thing that matters right here,
right now, is to imagine how much your chances of "success" increase or decrease
if you were to simulate the same situation over and over again.

Understanding the distribution of outcomes over time given a certain scenario
statistically yields more over time. And this is what you ought to be doing.

Just like the rocket of the moon mission, incapable of accounting for its entire
trajectory upfront, you can successfully fail your way to the moon.
