MEMO W09 MAR 2025

> People tend to come up with very different distributions of wrong. - [xh3b4sd]

Distributions show us that the world is not just black and white. Many people
live in a world in which the glass is either half full or half empty. But that
line of thinking is far too simplistic for a life worth living in a complex
world. To clarify, we are not talking about the act of distributing physical
goods here. When we talk about distributions as a concept, then we talk about
the realm of statistics. Distributions describe for instance how often different
things happen relative to one another, or how many things there are of a kind.
We could for instance visualize the distribution of how late the bus arrives
around the corner over the course of next week. On such a distribution we could
for instance see that the bus is always a couple of seconds late. We could see
that the bus is more than one minute late about 10% of the time. And we could
see that the bus never came once, because the wheel fell of the wagon.
Distributions can show us what is rather right and rather wrong. Distributions
can show us how real the world really is. Because the data underlying
distributions may highlight how relevant any given case turns out to be
according to hard numbers.

---

If you believe that some aspect of your life is totally true and 100% real, then
you are making an absolute statement. Cognitive science shows us that nothing is
ever as bad or as good as we make it to believe. The mental traps that we create
for ourselves can be found in the difference between the absolute and the
relative. And while absolutes and relatives too unfold on some distribution,
being too close to either side of any extreme would suggest to me that we may be
out of balance once more. Not understanding how fundamental distributions are in
this universe causes some of the largest displays of cognitive biases in our
societies today. Anything even remotely related to blockchains and politics
provides a basket of misunderstandings and cognitive shortcomings. All of which
make life harder for everyone, for no apparent reason.

---

The political spectrum unfolds on a distribution, just like everything else in
life. Most notably, our generations are marked by left and right ideologies, as
either end of those extremes caused history to be rewritten many times within
the last one hundred years. Extreme positions are rarely the answer. Especially
if the extreme position itself is on the wrong end of the wisdom distribution.
The Powerlaw Memo is all about understanding the world around us. Because every
one of us is the architect of their own life. And every one of us impacts the
very environment that we all share in extraordinary ways. So extraordinary that
some of our actions cause ripple effects through space and time, leaving a world
behind that will never be.

---

Last week we talked about having the right insight, but drawing the wrong
conclusions. We covered the insight that everything in life is subject to power
structures. What we did not do is to talk about the wrong conclusions that many
draw from this life. The conclusions that I want to discuss here can be found on
one of the extreme ends of the political spectrum. On one hand, those ideas
speak very loudly about fairness and equality. But for some reason those ideas
prefer to give everyone a fish to eat, instead of teaching everyone how to fish
independently. Being for empowerment of individuals, but not sustainably
empowering individuals with competence is dishonest at best. The resource that
truly impacts the lives of most people over time is not money, but competence.
Because competence scales a social system in a decentralized fashion so that
everyone able may help to lift up everyone around them. But instead, some of the
conclusions drawn amidst the extreme ends of ideologies prefer to provide the
notion of a world god. The picture of a wonder healer. An entity that can be
trusted as if ordinary folk better not worry about nothing no more. The tragedy
in all of this is two fold. For one, the world god represents a single point of
failure, which is a mechanism designer's way of saying that you better trust
nobody in the first place if you want to survive. And two, offloading
responsibility to somebody else achieves the opposite of well being, because a
lack of responsibility breeds complacency, which is the perfect ground to
nurture famine. There is a saying in society that goes something like this. You
are the average of the 5 people around you. That statement in and of itself is
not only true, but it also describes a distribution. So, where do you want to be
on that distribution? Who do you want to be?

---

I do not want to spend any time thinking about partisan mind viruses, because
once you are too far gone, the system itself takes over and runs with it. Once
you are so far away from reasonability, it is almost impossible to communicate.
So much so that inducing any kind of soft fork choice in behaviour gets out of
reach entirely. What I want to highlight for those who are still able to
comprehend, is the systems point of view of a self righteous society. A society
whose citizens have many opinions to share, even though they never really
achieved anything themselves. Masses of entitled individuals repeating marketing
ideas that many before them have also just recycled from somebody else before
them. The poster child of the trend that we are describing here is the European
Union and their struggle with themselves. I believe for some time now that there
is very little that may safe Europe in the decades to come. In fact, the
situation is so bleak within the minds of the many, the only thing waiting at
the end of the tunnel is once again, war. Not so much because of external
aggressors, but rather because of the enemies within. Because of the wrong
conclusions that elected and unelected officials alike draw time and time again.

---

The crux of it all maybe best described in what we think "good" really means.
The wrong conclusions almost always entail an element of what it means to really
help somebody. I am not sure how well a society is doing in which the government
spends tax payer money on syringes so that heroin addicts can get a clean shot.
But never mind, the situation is way worse. The single biggest mistake that
society gets wrong is the opposition of either left and right simply because an
idea is coming out of the wrong direction. The typical way of thinking nowadays
goes something like this. Any policy on the right end of the spectrum is
automatically understood as fascist and racist. And that is simply not how
distributions work. If we want to separate the world into left and right, then
each side unfolds on half of the entire spectrum. It is therefore impossible
that all right policies are equally located at the worst end of the extreme. And
so the gap between wanting low energy prices and another holocaust is rather
large. The dishonesty to label the very much needed competence as socially
opposable does all of society a huge disservice. We need the good parts of right
wing policies just like every parent has to keep their children in check once in
a while. The key to a successful life is balance, because this world is not just
black and white. Distributions, rule everything around us.

---

Mechanism designers can choose to create rules that do one of two things. We can
create rules that allow for a certain behaviour to emerge, and we can create
rules that force a certain behaviour to vanish. I have no way of proving any of
this, but I would claim that most systems work well if the rules for behaviour
to emerge and the rules for behaviour to vanish are somewhat in balance. That is
to say the "for" and "against" rules must be rather equally distributed within
any given system. A system is not a system if it has only "for" rules, because
then it is a free for all. And a system is not a system if it has only "against"
rules, because then it is just a prison. Power is always taken, and the
crumbling systems of our time prohibit far more for the many than they enable
for the few. Policy makers of our day and age tend to understand their job
description to be something that prohibits. I would argue that failing societies
have those types of "against" policy makers in common. The result being that
governments regulate their own citizens to death, simply because their mandate
of protection was utterly misunderstood.

---

And so we make a hard cut for the number of the week, because crypto must rule
everything around us. 88% is the amount of priority fees on Solana, which tells
me that crime is alive and well over there. The priority fee is mostly paid by
individuals who want to be first in order to extract more value than thy
neighbour. Today, almost all of Solana's revenue is based on the emerging
behaviour of extraction. A behaviour enabled by an ecosystem. We know this to be
rather true because almost all volume on Solana originates from the memecoin
industrial complex. Or how I like to call them in the wake of LIBRA, weapons of
mass destruction. 90% of anything is not a distribution anymore. 90% of anything
is basically the whole pie. Priority fees on Ethereum range between 15% and 40%,
with a vastly more diverse economy of utilization. That is how I like my chains.
Diverse and distributed.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2019/0000344
