MEMO W04 JAN 2025

> Nine out of ten people can be almost anything they want and the only limiting
> factor for them is time and the price they are willing to pay. - [xh3b4sd]

Humans have to agree on a lot of different things in life, every single day.
Consensus describes what a group agrees on. The way in which we come to
consensus is defined by a protocol, a set of rules that allow for complex
behaviour to emerge. Nation states in the western world thrive for a protocol
called democracy, which exists in many different flavours. Blockchain networks
mostly utilize the two most prominent consensus mechanisms called Proof of Work
and Proof of Stake. Both of those protocols work in fundamentally different
ways. And when people talk about them, they often confuse the core of those
protocols with a lot of different mechanisms that are blockchain specific at a
moment of time. What I want to say with that, is that a child for instance is
very different at a moment in time when we say that child is 3 years old,
compared to that same child at a moment in time when we say that child is 9
years old. The child is the same, and it is human every time we look at it, but
its composition and ability may be vastly different across space and time.
Looking at blockchain networks, they too evolve on a temporal arch, representing
different values and expressing different behaviours at any given moment in
time. Now, blockchain networks are supposed to be reliable and never change in
some very important ways. We expect from a blockchain that nobody may change its
history, because that very history may say that I own 10 tokens of something
valuable. And anyone changing that history may take those 10 tokens away from
me. The way in which blockchain networks guarantee that nobody can change this
history is called consensus. This week, let us look at one of those two
consensus mechanisms below.

---

Proof of Work as a consensus mechanism provides everyone participating in the
network with a puzzle to solve. The purpose of this puzzle is to proof to
everyone that you did something very difficult. The nature of this puzzle is
therefore mathematical. Solving this mathematical puzzle in the context of PoW
implies to process a lot of digital calculations in order to find the required
answer. And since we wander the digital realm, we need powerful computers to do
this work for us. As we can imagine, powerful computers require a lot of
electricity to operate. So on a global scale the fundamental challenge for
participants in PoW blockchains becomes to be the best at, at least one of two
things. Either network participants have infinite electricity to their disposal,
or computer chips able to solve an infinite amount of mathematical puzzles
instantly. The kicker is that neither of those extremes can be realized today.
In any event, there might be somebody out there who mastered the best technology
at the time, providing that player with the fastest computer chips on earth. In
a similar vein, there might be somebody out there who can afford to spend the
most amount of energy on all of those PoW puzzles. Those dimensions would
provide fundamental advantages to any one player. In consequence, every enabling
force may end up being a vector for centralization. If you are the best at
something, you dominate the game. Blockchains are supposed to remove that aspect
of domination by effectively neutralizing it. That is where any consensus
mechanism defines the rules to level the playing field. In an interconnected,
capitalistic world, PoW tries to neutralize centralization vectors by utilizing
commoditized resources. Those resources are electricity and GPUs. On average,
high performance GPUs and cheap electricity is somewhat evenly distributed
across various pockets on the surface of our planet. And that means that PoW
blockchain networks like Bitcoin are relatively decentralized. Up to this point
we only touched the consensus mechanism itself. We did not discuss any given
moment in time of Bitcoins evolution. We did not even mention cryptocurrencies.
We left out token issuance, difficulty adjustments and security budgets all
together.

---

The great equalizers for Proof of Work consensus mechanisms are our ability to
make fast GPUs and cheap electricity widely available. Though, those two things
alone make no blockchain network. The incentive to participate in any endeavour
are inputs and outputs, economically speaking. Humans only do something if their
perceived output is at least equal to, or greater than the perceived input that
they themselves sacrificed to begin with. That anticipated delta between the
input provided and the output received is the reward that motivates any
individual to expend any amount of energy. The incentive that we talk about here
in the context of blockchain networks are token rewards that network
participants may generate for themselves by acting honestly on behalf of the
network that those participants are serving. That is then the mechanism by which
BTC is mined when solving the mathematical puzzles that we began our story with
above. Given the ability to mine BTC, there must be an underlying capacity or
limit, to which extend those cryptocurrencies may be mined. And when we talk
about Bitcoin's token issuance schedule, then we automatically talk about
Bitcoin's security budget. Because Bitcoin is designed to spend ever more
resources on mining ever fewer coins. A network's security budget describes how
sustainable said network is at operating, and how good it is at securing itself
over time. With higher operating costs and fewer rewards to mine, Bitcoin as a
network always needed the value of BTC to go up in order to sustain its own
system. One of Bitcoins challenges in the future will be to sustain its own
system while fewer and fewer BTC rewards may be mined, all the while higher and
higher operational costs must be covered. Economically speaking, the cost basis
to produce 1 BTC steadily increases, and will reach a level of 100,000 USD in
the near future. And once the amount of money that someone can get for a single
BTC goes lower than the amount of money that it takes in order for any BTC to be
produced, then Bitcoin as a Proof of Work network shrinks in its ability to
operate and secure its own value proposition. All of that is to say that long
term, Bitcoin's security budget is unsustainable, and it is almost certainly
guaranteed that Bitcoin as it exists today, will not exist in ten years time
from now. The irony of Bitcoin's security budget is its unique selling point,
which is to never change. 21 million BTC is all there will ever be, and given
this constant, at some point in the future Bitcoin will first stop to grow, and
then start to diminish, because eventually there will be no value left for
anyone to extract by operating the system. And at that point Bitcoin becomes a
liability to operate, an unsustainable energy leak. Technologically it is
possible to make Bitcoin fit for the future, but the irony pointed out above is
that this means change, and fear, and uncertainty, and doubt. And nobody can
tell how any of this will ever be worked out. Ask 5 people today how Bitcoin is
going to address its security budget in the future, and you will get 6 answers.
Proof of Work itself is a beautifully elegant mechanism, because it forces
humans to battle with nature by a way of pure energy and math. But Bitcoin
today, at a moment in time, is destined to fail, or change beyond recognition.
One way or another, Bitcoin is going to be no more. And no amount of hand waving
is going to change that.

---

The decentralization aspects of a blockchain network are incredibly important,
and by consequence incredibly complex. Decentralization is a very technical term
that expressed in the real world can mean a lot of different things. On a purely
technical level, decentralization means "in many different places at the same
time", as opposed to the opposite centralization "in a single place". So
decentralization is the property of something happening concurrently across a
broader spectrum across space and time. The relevant question for us to ask now
is on which dimensions this property should be expressed in order to actually
qualify as decentralized in the context of blockchain networks. And the answer
is unfortunately that there is no single right answer. In fact there are
multiple dimensions on which decentralization must be expressed simultaneously,
but the degree to which every single dimension should express the property of
decentralization may very well vary dramatically. The dimensions that interest
us the most in this context are for instance geographic distribution, because we
want our blockchains to be validated from many different places all around the
world. Then there is the economic barrier to entry, which dictates who might be
able to participate in validating a blockchain network. And that barrier must
optimally be as low as possible, because the lower the barrier to entry, the
more different people may be able to help validate the network in order to keep
it honest for everyone involved. There is also the ownership distribution of the
associated network token, which is relevant because a blockchain is of no use,
if some single person or entity controls virtually all of its coins. And to make
the 4 horsemen complete, we need to consider the structural architecture that
allows a blockchain network to evolve and adapt across space and time. That
structural architecture is of deeply cultural nature. And so, any social layer
rooted in complacency or impotence may very well cause its governed systems to
perish eventually.

---

In the spirit of all of the above, our number for the week turns then out to be
5%, because that is the estimated amount of BTC owned by all Satoshi wallets.
We can now go on to believe that this is a good thing because those coins will
never move again, removing about 1 million BTC from circulating supply, and
number go up. But, we can also believe that those coins will be the first to
move once quantum computers manage to break modern encryption schemes, because
that alternative version of our universe represents a real threat within the
next couple of years. And then number go down. All roads lead to either death or
change for Bitcoin in the near term future, and nation states governed by the
most fallible, considering to put BTC into some kind of national reserve, do by
my estimation not quite grasp the forces that they are meddling with. Until next
time, let's try to get the big things right.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2019/0000519
