MEMO W15 APR 2025

> Money exists on a quality distribution, and it therefore applies that not
> every money is created equal. - [xh3b4sd]

All systems prefer hardness, because hardness allows any system to survive. The
lifeblood of any economic system is simply money. And that very money is defined
by properties of hardness too. The factors for any money to develop a specific
hardness may be internally or externally defined along the dimensions of supply
and demand. Who is then to say how much anything should be worth anyway? How
hard is the money of networks and nations? And what has the gold standard to do
with all of that?

---

The notion that anything might be of value is as old as time. Barter existed
ever since there have been humans on the scene. Gold was used as store of value
for about 5,000 years. Formal money was developed roughly 3,000 years ago.
Humans virtualize enterprise ownership for over 400 years by now. And as
impactful as the information age has been so far, the tokenization of everything
has literally just begun.

---

What we want to further focus on here is the way in which nation states and
blockchain networks define their monetary policies. In particular we want to
look at the gravitational centers of those types of economies, because their
[Gravitropic Forces] do effectively define the economic behaviour of any given
system.

---

Let's start with the nation state and the establishment of the gold standard act
in the year 1900. The mechanism designers of the day wanted to create a money
that is stable, and that can be trusted. And the best anchor for said money was
the one thing that everybody wanted, but not many could have. That anchor, was
gold. The one quality that was valued most during those uncertain days was
stability. And up until 1971, gold provided that very stability for the US
Dollar. In this picture, gold was the external factor that determined the value
of the nation's money.

---

It turns out that even stability comes at a cost, because what is yet so stable
may not adapt very well to periods of crises. Subsequently the gold standard was
abandoned, because the backing of gold restricted monetary policy too much. So
much so that the government was not able anymore to respond to sea changes like
wars, depressions and the changing world order. In technical terms we would say
that the system wasn't very flexible or elastic, so it couldn't adapt to change
very well.

---

On top of the above, the gold standard had one mechanistic flaw that nobody ever
talks about. The global gold supply was effectively determined by externalities
outside of the control of any government whatsoever. And that means the
valuation and stability of the world's monetary policies dependend heavily on
the desire and ability of anyone to dig up gold from the ground, wherever it may
be found. An analog to this very dynamic might be explained by today's control
that petroleum exporting countries have over the global oil supply. And if
adversaries can increase your gas prices or decrease your gold value, then there
is not much left of a nation's sovereignty. The power struggles playing out here
are of extraordinary geopolitical consequence, none of which help a nation to
establish hardness.

---

The search for an optimal monetary policy eventually created systems of money
printers and zero interest rates. And the further monetary policy strayed away
from hardness, the more was there left to be desired. That very desire lead to
the irony of our story, because it lead to the creation of a technology that was
built to compete with all of those problems of hardness. Irresponsibility lead
to competition, and competition brought us blockchain networks.

---

Blockchain networks define their own monetary policy using tokens that are
algorithmically issued one way or another. The boundary conditions of the
network itself define how much supply may be created and under which
circumstances that supply may come to exist. Those supply mechanisms serve a
very special purpose. And that purpose is inherently desirable for the network,
because it is the network itself that defines its own boundary conditions
trustlessly, which cannot be easily exploited. Those types of hard wired and
self sustaining economies produces a hardness that the nation state can simply
not compete with. Blockchain networks were the first hyperstructures that
codified monetary policy in their own programmatic constitution.

---

The relationship between the nation state and its own money supply is at times
artificially inverted by creating more money in order to fight more crises. More
money now may help to solve a problem today, but that very solution comes at a
cost that must be paid in the future. The flexibility in monetary policy as
described in this example may appear to be elastic, but the question we have to
ask is which part of the system is actually expressing those properties of
elasticity. Because elasticity, similar to hardness, unsurprisingly, comes at a
cost too.

---

A nation's money supply is artificially held elastic in order to provide overall
system stability. What we then have to realize is that the elasticity in money
supply is actually a detractor for a system's hardness. The way in which
hardness is minimized here, is the fact that the artificially manipulated money
supply simply borrows from the future. And the fact that this type of borrowing
is even possible creates a systemic downward spiral of necessary discipline,
which detereorates the system until the borrowing either reverses or the system
collapsed. The more money a nation prints, the better it is doing in the short
term. And the tragedy of an artificially inflated nation is that it remains
stuck in this vicious cycle of producing ever more liquidity. In the moment it
looks like everything is just fine, but security budgets do eventually matter.
And the only way out of this vicious cycle is a very painful portion of
prolonged austerity.

---

A network's money supply is programmatically held elastic in order to minimize
trust assumptions. That is only possible because the monetary policy of
blockchain networks cannot be compromised by the first crisis showing up on the
horizon. The network's builtin boundary conditions ensure a systemic
accountability which humans are otherwise tempted to circumvent. The correlation
between a network's money supply and that network itself is uninverted when
compared to the nation state. The more supply there is created, the less healthy
the network becomes. But if the network grows, the more supply it can generate
in order to increase its utility function. This uninverted correlation between
supply and network is the desired default behaviour.

---

And so, market based reductions in money supply are inherently healthy for
networks, but excruciatingly painful for nations, because nations can typically
not just stop spending. The reason why the respective supply correlations are
flipped across nations and networks is because the nation choses to keep their
inputs elastic, while the network choses to keep its outputs elastic. That
asymmetry allows a nation to fake system health temporarily, while it allows a
network to guarantee hardness over long periods of time. The United States
Government is essentially forced to debase its own currency over time in order
to address structural issues like generational demographics. Ethereum is aiming
for the infamous burn in the long run, which increases the value proposition of
its own money, the more it is being used. Ethereum expresses hardness when it
becomes ultra sound in the most relevant way.

---

Nations and networks both seek to establish hardness, but nations prefer
economic stability while networks prefer economic elasticity. Treating the
inputs and outputs of a system properly has the effect of redefining that
system's utility function. This conclusion is not to dunk on the stability that
governments try to provide, but rather to outline credible paths towards
hardness for programmatic economies.

---

And with that we make a hard break for the number that we picked for this week.
400 user operations per second are performed across the entire Ethereum
ecosystem over the course of a day. We refer to user operations here because
they capture the intended actions of a user instead of submitted transactions.
Another way of saying this would be that there may be many different user
operations executed within a single transaction. A user operation may refer to
an ETH transfer, a token swap, or any contract write onchain. The user operation
terminology originates from the concept of account abstraction, which is another
mechanism to utilize a network's economic elasticity. Integrating Ethereum ever
deeper into the real world economy will eventually allow us to turn elasticity
into hardness, synchronously composable for all of the United Chains of
Ethereum.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001299
[Gravitropic Forces]: https://protocol-particles.github.io/Phenomena/Gravitropy
