MEMO W06 FEB 2025

> I am a storm. I show you who you are. - [xh3b4sd]

The rollup centric roadmap as implemented by the Ethereum ecosystem entails a
promise. That promise goes as follows. Every L2 rollup will try out different
business models and varying technology stacks, so that we are collectively
experimenting with different approaches across the entire Ethereum ecosystem.
The promise is then that some of those successful experiments originated on L2
rollups, may find their way back one day to benefit Ethereum mainnet. Someone
said recently that all of the L2 experimentation has not yet brought innovation
back to the L1. And I am not sure if that is a fair assessment of the situation
we are in today. From an engineering point of view, I can already see several
angles on which research and development is shaped by a combination of dynamics
unfolding on L1 and L2 alike. There is already some kind of cross-pollination
happening when mechanism designers think about interoperability between
different chains. The need of a single coherent user experience arises from the
existence of fragmented L2 rollups. That by consequence shapes the future of
Ethereum mainnet so that many different chains may be connected seamlessly one
day, inheriting L1 security guarantees. We can see a similar picture looking at
everything that has anything to do with zero knowledge cryptography. Various
proof systems have been designed and built in order to make L2 rollups work
today. Among others, Starknet, ZKSync, Taiko operate proof systems to ensure
their own rollup integrity on top of Ethereum. All of those proof systems have
vastly increased the ZK capabilities that we have to our disposal today. All of
which was developed because of the rollup centric roadmap. One day all of this
research and development will likely culminate in an L1 ZK native EVM, bringing
all of the crazy moon math back home again. Another example of technology
originating from a cross chain environment and then finding its way back home to
Ethereum mainnet are so called intent based architectures. Somebody may fact
check me on this, but I believe that intents as a technical concept originated
from the problem of cross chain bridging, where solver markets have been
leveraged in order to fulfil an economic desire between different chains. Those
intent based architectures and solver marketplaces have already found their way
to the L1 in the form of something like CoW Swap. What is basically happening
inside of this product is the following. A user defines conditions for a token
swap that they want to make. This is then the so called intent, a user defined
outcome. CoW Swap does then create an onchain competition for any interested
participant to solve for the proposed intent. At the end of competition stands a
solver that has won the right to fulfil the user's intent based on its
cryptographically guaranteed parameters. The result of this onchain competition
is the guaranteed execution to the best possible price, free of toxic MEV. Many
very large orders are conducted regularly via such intent based architectures on
Ethereum mainnet already today. What we now can say in summary is that the L1
does already benefit from all kinds of experimentations happening all across the
L2 landscape. Chain interoperability, zero knowledge proofs, and intent based
architectures are just a few examples that have already crossed the chasm. The
cycle times that we are subject to here are longer for core infrastructure
developments. But the benefits of networks of networks will permeate through the
entire ecosystem eventually. ZK EVMs will enable a mainnet native ZK EVM one
day. The entire UX debate across Ethereum land lead L2s to improve account
abstraction standards as a unit. And thus the unified Ethereum vision is
effectively driven by L2 fragmentation. One day it will all come together.
Patience, Brother Bing.

---

Somebody asked the other day why Reddit has become so dominated by left-wing
ideologies. I thought about it, and tried to come up with an explanation for
myself. The following is a ramble of mine, which I am not quite sure what to do
with. I am not sure how right or how wrong any of this is. In any event, here is
how I tried to organize my thoughts. A system that allows anyone to occupy a
position of power outside of the realm of society, attracts the lowest quality
of character. The system we are talking about here is Reddit as a social media
platform. Life is hard in general, and it takes a particular person to become
completely removed from reality. And once you drop out of the real world, you go
looking for meaning in darker places elsewhere. In other words, people without a
real life and purpose got enabled to become the master of their own echo
chamber, potentially leading people towards ever more incompetence. Because, if
they had not been intrinsically incompetent in the first place, then they would
not have taken on those self-reinforcing roles of doom. The people we refer to
above are certain types of Subreddit moderators, and their abuse of power is
reflected in their ability to dictate the application of rules and norms as they
interpret them without any form of recourse or appeal. Subreddits can often be
described as impenetrable dictatorships. And with that I am starting to think
more and more that left ideologies require a certain distance from real life to
begin with. Hubris can only thrive if the reconciliation with reality is absent.
When you look around, most working class people, those who have to get up early
and get something done in order to make a living, those people are predominantly
on the right side of the political spectrum. Most plumbers are rather right.
Most teachers are rather left. Almost all soldiers are rather right. And almost
all academics are rather left. Your proximity to the brutal force of nature, the
act of surviving itself may be what actually holds us in the balance. And so, we
better not lose that. What I want to say is this. Autonomy and comfort are
incompatible in a highly relevant way. The more you choose comfort in your life,
the less autonomous you will become over time, because all comfort comes at the
cost of giving up control to some higher force that you may not like very much
eventually. Because once that higher force got a real tight grip around your
neck, you will only be left to do its own bitter bidding.

---

If you are heavily exposed to social media, then this cycle appears to be
dominated by people who try to extract as much value for themselves as possible.
Looking at most charts, this story is easily believable. What I would rather
like to focus on are the builders instead. Those people who have skin in the
game. Those people who have a vision for the future. So this is to everyone who
holds up some ideals. This is to everyone who keeps working on ideas that one
day may change somebody else's life. In that was I have always thought of tokens
as some kind of real estate. An ownership claim to something useful within the
cryptographically enabled world economy. This is to the builders and mechanism
designers. Lord knows the world needs you.

---

Our number for this week is 10, because the ETH dominance is down to almost 10%,
while Solana throughout the most recent memecoin drama became now home to more
than 10 billion USD in stablecoin TVL. Acquiring 10 billion USD in stablecoins
is no small feat, not for any ecosystem. What is interesting here is the fact
that despite TVL going up in Solana land, trading volume has been rather flat or
going down on average. This is particularly funny when we consider that all of
the historic wash trading and fake volume generated was touted as capital
efficiency. And now that real people appear to move real money onto the chain,
one of Solana's most important metric doesn't move. It is almost as if trading
volume is not the only metric that really matters for a blockchain network. In a
similar sad picture, the ETH dominance at almost 10% wouldn't be anything to
worry about if overall crypto-economic activity would inspire more confidence in
the future growth of this industry. I think we will certainly get there one day.
And so for now we are maybe just left with one of those days during which it
feels like nothing much is going quite in the right direction. We know for a
fact this sentiment is not true. And so our feelings may rather reflect the
quiet before the storm. Until next time, dear reader.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2019/0000299
