MEMO W16 APR 2025

> You don't want money in the bank. You want money in the system. - [xh3b4sd]

There is often the argument that ETH is not used for anything meaningful. And I
always find it somewhat irritating to hear such statements. First, meaning is
subjective. What you and I find meaningful, given our very own world view, may
be very different. And second, the statement that ETH isn't used in quite
meaningful ways is simply not true. This week we are going to look at all the
different ways in which ETH is used across the onchain economy. And doing that,
we are going to look at all the different ways in which ETH accrues value by
increasing its own utility function. Today ETH has a market cap of roughly 200
billion USD. This in itself is a respectable size for any system to command. And
not only are 200 billion USD very respectable, but also is ETH criminally
undervalued, considering that the world economy will become ever more onchain.

---

The native unit of account within the Ethereum ecosystem is ETH the asset. The
gas price for block and blob space alike is denominated in ETH. That means
transaction settlement and data availability are two main drivers of ETH's value
accrual. About 75% of DEX liquidity is denominated in ETH or ETH derivatives. So
the deepest liquidity pools do naturally evolve around ETH as the base trading
pair. Ethereum derives its economic security from staked ETH, which is subject
to slashing upon dishonest behaviour. And with that, all of Ethereum's crypto
economic security guarantees are denominated in ETH too. Those security
guarantees are further being exported via restaking, which expands Ethereum's
real estate even more by enabling versions of economic activity that are not
fully expressed onchain.

---

The native medium of exchange within the Ethereum ecosystem is then also ETH the
asset. All ETH denominated products and services as described above require ETH
to change hands. In a world of account abstraction, user operations may be
executed by paying for gas with any token, or maybe even without the user
knowing about any transaction cost whatsoever. But none of that changes the fact
that Ethereum validators receive ETH for transaction inclusion and that economic
security is denominated in ETH after all. It is often interpreted as a negative,
that user's don't need to hold or know about ETH in the first place when using
the onchain economy. But account abstraction is a superpower in this regard,
because it allows ETH to permeate through all layers of society without anyone
having to really worry about it. Contrary to popular belief, rollups and
stablecoins are not parasitic. They are Ethereum's trojan horses, because they
allow for the expansion of Ethereum's real estate, far and wide. Imagine we
would force everyone to hold ETH in order to use the chain. That kind of pipe
dream would be dead on arrival. Account abstraction or not. ETH transfers are so
significant, they do typically show up in the top 3 of the burn leaderboard.

---

ETH is the store of value for Ethereans, people who believe in the future of the
onchain economy. Any store of value must retain the value provided for long
periods of time. Admittedly, ETH was not able to maintain purchasing power so
far over several significant time frames. And that turned ETH into a speculative
asset that most people do not believe in. The numbers we know today don't lie.
But it is my belief that the numbers of tomorrow, the numbers of the coming
years and decades, will prove ETH to be an economically relevant store of value
with significant upside potential, exactly because major aspects of the world
economy will become ever more tokenized.

---

An often overlooked aspect of Ethereum's modularity is that companies like
Coinbase participate in the network in order to process their own business
specific transactions efficiently. The economic activity in the Coinbase case is
that trades of digital assets have to be settled on Ethereum. That specific
business activity generates so much value for Coinbase that they are running
thousands of validators in order to guarantee inclusion of the transaction flow
that they generate. The value driver for ETH in this case is then the extension
of Ethereum's real estate through real world business use cases. The integration
between the offchain and the onchain world is a real positive sum aspect in a
future that becomes ever more onchain. Coinbase doesn't participate in network
validation for the staking rewards. I would argue that Coinbase would run the
same amount of Ethereum validators even if they would yield zero additional
capital, simply because network participation enables Coinbase's core business
of operating a digital assets exchange.

---

Staking pools and distributed validator platforms do arguably provide their
services for the yield, which is the amount of staking rewards issued by the
Ethereum network. We often hear comparisons about the centralization of Bitcoin
and Ethereum through the coordination of pooled resources. The truth of the
matter though is that Bitcoin operates a far more centralized network than
Ethereum does, for two critical reasons. One, three or four mining pools control
the vast majority of hash power. And two, a mining pool is the colocation of
GPUs, which are all stored and operated inside the same building. The
decentralized protocols enabling staking pools on Ethereum are on the other hand
used by a myriad of different staking operators, all having different
preferences for geographies and software stacks. Staking might appear to
represent a centralizing force, but the actually implemented mechanism design of
staking providers like Lido and Rocket Pool are true facilitators of
decentralized staking primitives, all of which bind enormous amounts of ETH for
the long term. Think of it this way: staking pools are Ethereum's permafrost.

---

Rollups are the native scaling solution for Ethereum. We are building networks
of networks. And in all of crypto, we did it first. Every rollup is running a
dedicated onchain economy secured by Ethereum. Rollups are another superpower of
Ethereum, because they allow for credibly neutral settlement of cryptoeconomic
activity, based on the operational preferences that any given business use case
may require. The validator set of your rollup can be permissioned or
permissionless. The scalability properties of your rollup can be adjusted to
your specific needs. Rollups are free to chose their preferred virtual machine
and gas token. And rollups are free to chose their regulatory and privacy
policies for the transactions that they themselves want to facilitate. Ethereans
do certainly prefer ETH to be used as gas token on rollups. That is one aspect
of what we call Ethereum alignment. But we should argue that a thousand flowers
rather bloom, instead of prescribing top down purity tests. Ethereum needs to
lean into the competitive market and favour 100 smaller rollups over 2 big ones.
In any event, rollups expand Ethereum's real estate and export ETH as money.
Whether you agree with it or not. This is facts.

---

ETH is the most pristine collateral all across DeFi. And with that we should
also mention that DeFi originated on Ethereum, and that 95% of DeFi happens on
top of Ethereum. No memecoin washtrading on Solana can change that. The reason
for this dominance is because ETH is credibly neutral onchain money. If it's
your keys, then it's your ETH. In Aave alone there are about 25 billion USD
supplied in collateral, of which almost half is denominated in ETH and ETH
derivatives. ETH the asset is part of the DeFi money lego complex. Its usage and
utility will only increase from here, while both of these aspects perpetuate one
another all across the cryptographically enabled world economic.

---

Smart contract blockchains enable new primitives for internet native
applications. And all of those expand Ethereum's real estate. Today we can
already see several social media platforms and gaming ecosystems, all building
more accessible and equitable consumer apps on top of the credibly neutral
substrate that is powered by ETH. Onchain native businesses like Farcaster and
Zora increase the amount of ETH in user wallets and the provenance of ETH in
every additional block space secured. Tokenization is the latest darling of
traditional finance. BlackRock has over 2 billion USD of short term treasury
notes tokenized on Ethereum. The majority of the stablecoin complex is settled
on Ethereum too. All of those use cases expand ETH's economic real estate, which
means that all of those use cases add to ETH's value accrual.

---

We can already see several state and business treasuries that treat ETH as a
viable capital asset. Those institutions have realized how the future will most
likely look like. DAOs and pension funds alike, they all carry the spirit of the
strategic ETH reserve. And none of those entities cares about the toxic noise on
crypto twitter. Because Ethereum is built by those with skin in the game. Not
those who only complain about the efforts of others.

---

Onchain has become more than just money. Onchain can be about finance and
speculation, but more so it can be about community, content, tickets, branding,
collecting and every other possible permutation of production and consumption in
an interconnected world that becomes ever more digital. Real world businesses
have only recently started to integrate with Ethereum on more serious terms. In
the past, business were simply not allowed to operate onchain for bogus
regulatory reasons. But US corporations got the green light now to integrate
with public blockchains. And many of them want to do it because Ethereum allows
them to create more value for their business. Merging traditional businesses
with the onchain economy will expand Ethereum's footprint by orders of
magnitude. All of those expansions open up many different supply sinks for ETH
to be utilized at the end of the day. And the emerging properties of this very
onchain economy will be so much larger than the sum of its parts.

---

27.6 trillion USD in stablecoin volume was processed globally in all of 2024.
And 95% of that volume was settled on Ethereum. It goes without saying, but,
there is no second best.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2021/0001047
