I got into Indigenous Continent, written by Pekka Hamalainen. The book describes
the history of the American continent, ever since its conquering began around
the 15th century. Notably we follow Cortés as he scuttled his own ships off the
coast of Veracruz, forcing all soldiers to fully commit to the vicious conquest
of the Aztec Empire, because without ships, retreat was no longer possible.
South America fell comparatively quickly into the hands of the colonial powers
at the time, where the power struggles between the Native Americans and its
colonial invaders in the northern parts of the continent lasted almost 4
centuries. Before the Europeans arrived, the horse was extinct and unknown to
Native Americans. The irony of introducing the horse as economic and military
force to the continent, turned Native Americans into more powerful enemies than
anyone could have anticipated. The bottom line between South America
surrendering quickly and North America fighting on for centuries was mostly
about the differences in which either society was structured and governed. It
appeared that the Aztec empire was a strictly top down hierarchy, ruled by a
single leader. Native Americans on the other hand were highly decentralized.
Many different tribes were governed by both men and women. That decentralized
architecture of many different peoples provided an apparently insurmountable
strategic problem to the colonial invaders. For centuries, the natives fought,
negotiated and traded with the new settlers. But eventually, all the conflict
took a devastating toll on native tribes and their way of living. Eventually,
the US American expansion was unavoidable. The founding fathers of the United
States of America thought of Native Americans as "lesser peoples" and formulated
thought and written law, which cemented the colonial destiny eventually. The
book is so much focussed on the ethnic war between native and non-native forces,
that it was super hard for me to follow in which historical context individual
conflicts unfolded. For instance, it wasn't really clear to me at which point
the US civil war was fought throughout the chapters, and it was only like a
footnote of sorts, when the author mentioned that Native Americans fought on
both sides, to either support the Union or the Confederacy. The book is great to
understand that the origin story of the United States is basically a 400 year
long genocide against Native Americans.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Indigenous-Continent-Hoerbuch/B0BQ1YRF8S
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pekka_H%C3%A4m%C3%A4l%C3%A4inen
