I got into Principles for Dealing with the Changing World Order, written by Ray
Dalio. This book might be a must read for anyone working in government,
business, tech or finance. Dalio describes how empires rise and fall for the
past 500 years. Geo political world powers show to operate within their own
lifecycles, and the greatest power within their time tends to provide the global
reserve currency. During the past 500 years we saw the Dutch, the British, the
American and now the Chinese Empire to unfold. What is so remarkable about the
lifecycles of empires is that their half life is so much greater than the human
life span. And since most people never experienced an empire shift and nobody,
at that time, can tell when such a shift is happening, the events unfolding
usually come to such a great surprise and hit most of the population wildly
unprepared. We may as well call these events black swans. They only become
apparent in hindsight. At the time of writing, it appears the US American Empire
is in steep decline based on their internal order, their external order and
their long term debt cycle. It appears to me that the United States cannot do
much about their decline as a leading world power. Also the days of the reserve
currency status of the USD are counted. Dynamics of external order play nation
states a little bit like leafs in the wind. Though how these macro tectonic
shifts affect the people within nation states lays more in the hand of its
citizens deciding together about the course of their internal order. Empires do
not need to cease to exist. Empires can transform. Change might happen in
non-disastrous ways. In any case there are chances of conflict escalation by
means of multi dimensional warfare. The book is extremely fascinating and
provides so much of rich research. May it help understand ourselves better so we
can identify opportunities and prevent mayhem.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Changing-World-Order-Hoerbuch/1797115782
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Dalio
• https://economicprinciples.org
