I have something on my mind I am carrying around with me for a long time. It is
about my own thoughts and personal opinion and rather unrelated to most recent
events. I want to talk about tough love. For the past decade I was more and more
living my life for working with people who share a common cause. This led to
what we know of as Giant Swarm today.

I do not want to live my life for a cause that is not able to live up to its own
high standards. I do not want to live my life for a cause for which we do not
achieve our goals only because the people we like so much are not able to
deliver what we need. I do not want to live my life for a cause in which people
take advantage of the generosity and trust the system provides for them.

I want to live my life for a cause that allows each and everyone of us to grow
big so that we can make a difference together. I want to live my life for a
cause for which each and everyone of us tries to know themselves, know what they
are good at and know what they are not good at. I want to live my life for a
cause for which one's own ego does not prevent the collective reflection and
appreciation of their own mistakes. I want to live my life for a cause for which
we find out who we actually are so that we can have a common understanding of
what that cause actually means.

That implies that not all the people we want to come with us are able to come
with us over the whole distance. And that is ok. That implies that not all the
people we put our high hopes in are able to live up to our high standards. And
that is ok. That implies that all the people better realize if they are in the
right place or not, so that they can excel or go somewhere else. And that is ok.

When we want to go big we need to hire a lot of people and fill positions we
never filled before. When we hire more people we will make mistakes which we
have to learn from. The people we hire are usually very likeable because they
often share our core values. When people we hire do not live up to our high
standards then we have to help them achieve these high standards. That is an
investment containing all its up and down sides. When people cannot live up to
our high standards even though we tried super hard to help them grow into their
role then we have to let them go for the better. When people cannot live up to
our high standards and do not allow us to help them then we have to let them go
for the better. That is often a character test for all people involved, which is
good, because then we get the chance to show what we are really made off. The
more we ignore reality here the more we will not like it.

Understanding what is important and what is not is tough love. Telling the
people you like that they are not good enough is tough love. Listening to people
who tell you that you are not good enough is tough love. Finding the balance
between protecting the system and protecting the individual is tough love.
Walking through fire for those who really need you is tough love. Owning your
own bullshit in front of the team is tough love. Having respect for the people
who are smaller than you is tough love. Making the effort to reflect on the
impact you have on the team is tough love. Not getting the praise you feel you
actually deserve is tough love. Caring with adjusted expectations is tough love.
Putting in the hours while others clock out is tough love. Being miserable for
some time while others constantly appear to fly high is tough love. Not spitting
out the first brain fart coming out of your reptile lower brain as soon as shit
hits the fan is tough love.

I am here for our common cause. I am here for meaningful work. I am here for
meaningful relationships. I am here for radical transparency. I am here to come
running when you call. I am here to walk through fire every day. I am here for
tough love. I am here because this here is some real high performer shit and
whoever cannot stand the heat better goes somewhere else. Because, that is ok.
