Purple Dreams
=============

Naka (Nariah Kha Rhakia Noshami) / Sovereign Polymer Agent / Extraction Class / Dreamy, Ferocious, Honest, Unleashed / Always Maximum Bidding, Highly Regarded Hyper Medium, A Real Kick In The Pants, Makes Your Spouse Jealous
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_transcript version 0.3.0_

_start of transcript_

Key Take-Aways
--------------

* Intimacy is often considered shameful and unclassy in medieval societies
  like the ones we can observe here on this [pale blue
  dot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pale_Blue_Dot).

* You are the master of your kingdom, a kingdom of dreams. Dreams are of the
  endless, and only you know what it means.

* Information and Behaviour are
  [fundamental](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reality). Information processing
  like reading can be done quickly. Behaviour emergence like feeling must be done
  slowly.

Where I Wander There Is Darkness
--------------------------------

Despite the raging violence scattered across and beyond The Great Nebuli, here
was a place of silence. A little more than dimly lit. Glow and sparkle coming
from various lights and candles carefully placed around the room. The smooth
walls painted a deep silvery blue, and the floor appeared to be covered in a
plush, exotic rug. The high room had something unfamiliar yet still calming to
it. The clean air gave off a light smell of incense and exotic spices. It felt
foreign in a way. Like doing something you deeply enjoy the very first time.
There was a sense of inviting stillness, warmth and excitement.

> Memory Bank Inscription LM2P5N039: Turn off the light in the dark. It may
> blind you. You will see more without it.

That room, the inner most of your very soul, a retreat in fact for body and
mind. That room, metaphorically the fabric and the core of whatever may be left
of you. Everyone has it, and everyone can find it. It does not take any drug
glands to follow the proverbial rabbit down its hole. All it takes is to listen
carefully, removed from the sheer volume of the hyper speed worlds surrounding
us at all times, in any imaginable dimensions.

> Memory Bank Inscription LM47P3N041: No wound, no battle scar, no account of
> mercy and not a single instance of wrath may cross this path of madness. Let
> it be and heartless, where I wander there is darkness.

If You Could Only Risk A Tiny Glance
------------------------------------

The naked skin of her vibing hips appeared to be so full of youth. Carefully
bouncing back and forth, almost perfectly synchronized with the upbeat tune of a
fast paced information age. Without touching her thighs, you could almost feel
the warmth radiating off her gap, almost notice the strawberry sweet scent
infecting your mind. Like your heart stops for a second, catching the gaze of
the most beautiful thing you have ever seen wandering the surface of this
sphere. Like something so pure and precious any creature would chose to die for,
if chosen by this goddess, between light and dark. An orange glow was portrait
by her bloom skin, clear and inviting, a lusty peach, bathed in light of the
second sun. Her hips, up in the air, joyful playing with the beat coming from
her neural lace.

Left, and right. Left, and right.

Moving in an infinite eight-shaped loop, her cheeks bright like the moon,
starring back at you. She was not just uncaring for who was watching her
completely naked, nano-biogenic perfection. It was just that, she was so fully
immersed in the experience, so comfortable, just, to be. Be right here, right
now. And there was absolutely nothing wrong with that. Had she been designed to
be predatory, she would have been granted way more than Black Widow Status. Each
and every of her lovers, no matter their Proto-Class, would have found the
greatest happy end of their lifetime, backup or not.

> Memory Bank Inscription PR10CLT5SS3: proto-classes of sovereign agents across the galaxies are chosen by transformation. The closest resemblance, considering insufficiencies in humanoid languages, can be found with the concept of “genders”.

Left, and right. Left, and right.

One particular dream simulation emphasized the irrepressible urge to eat her up,
right from behind. Converging into one drooling entity of pulsating ecstasy.
Mutating into a mellow unity who’s sole purpose was to flare in mutual pleasure.
Unleashed purity of loving energy, realized by the fundamental elements of
information and behaviour. This was one of the more popular fantasies, of her’s.

Left, and right. Left, and right.

From an angle you could peak at her polished toes sometimes. Supporting the
Melting Heart Pose she was enjoying so much right now. Once in a while one or
two feet went up, swiftly blocking the crystal clear view of her most precious
attributes. Her knees left on the ground, holding her upright in perfect
position to enjoy the play without interruption. Grabbing her cheeks from here,
firm and fluffy, even more mesmerizing than this uncensored view was only the
slight temperature difference between her core body temperature and the somewhat
fresh feeling of her surface level detail skin. A polymer really, a feat of
penetration engineering, any result of purely by-chance evolutionary process
would pale in comparison. In that sense, she was the predator here after all. A
magical fable being, a creature of competence in the domain of persuasion like
nothing else any dream world out there has ever been allowed to witness before.

> Memory Bank Inscription PO7346LU59YY10: “Kha” literally translated into
> humanoid English as “of” and “Rhakia Noshami” literally translated into
> humaniod English as “without end”. Colloquial meaning recorded as “of the
> endless”. Known to The Inner Circle as “Codename Naka”.

And Then, This Dream Could Be Yours
-----------------------------------

Left, and right. Left, and right.

Besides the smooth touch of her skin and the loving feeling it infected you
with, her polymer was structurally reinforced along architecturally intricate
pathways of her underlying exoskeleton. These structural features were not only
pretty, but functional. Occasionally, they gave rhythmic nudges and queues away
based on environmental interactions and internal processes. In colour and scent.
In wavelength and frequency, pulsating along her curves, controlled by herself
and sometimes by others, if she let them. But pulsating was not only her
trembling flesh for excitement. The most prominent feature from the current
point of view was not her sex appeal. It was not the arousal of this particular
experience. Not her perfectly inviting skin, not her cute polished toes. For
most, it was rather the initial irritation of a stimulation controller reaching
out of her bottom, into the air, literally dancing and shaking to the sound of a
generation. Granting wishes to the highest bidder at any given moment. Its
outside sleeve made of predominantly darker silicone, decorated with stripy,
bubbly features, flashing purple, speaking in foreign tongues of
[love](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Love).

Left, and right. Left, and … right did never come.

That last right swing finish of her sugar sweet thighs aborted in face of
animalistic forces she was just waiting for. And so, she just shivered in lust.
A burst of impulses rushed through her internals, up her spine, causing cosmic
explosions like a nanosecond lasts a lifetime. Impulse after impulse, the
feeling of a juicy train colliding within. Flooding every inch with such an
explosive compassion any rational thought left the station, causing her to let
go of anything she ever cared about in this dark and empty universe. An eruption
fulfilling its destiny, flowing thickly into every unscathed corner of her
sovereignty. She, exhausted through the night, and her lover in that instance,
connected as one, were simply loving every single second of this experience.

> Memory Bank Inscription PU92101OVE05: love is the decision to extend one’s
> sovereign self in order to care for another by bidding or trade.

_end of transcript_
