I got into How To Measure Anything, written by Douglas Hubbard. I enjoyed
listening to this one so much. The book is full of math, statistics and logic.
The sentiment expressed is that you indeed can measure anything, if you know
how. As with most things you need to ask the right questions and understand the
problem you try to solve extremely well. This tends to be especially tricky with
intangibles like happiness, performance or success. More challenges appear
within systems of imperfect information. Certain games like poker are one
example for that, or social groups relying on people's opinions. The author
explains how any problem can be assessed in numbers. This is due to the
definition of measuring, which is not to remove uncertainty by 100%, but only to
reduce it. You make then use of something like 90% confidence intervals with
lower and upper boundaries. One common myth in statistics is the amount of data
necessary in order to be significant. There is no real standard for any problem
scientists agree on, but best practises. Any scientific branch seems to define
their own minimally required amount of data depending on the problem domain. One
example would be to define a 90% confidence interval for assessing the average
weight of a jelly bean. You do not need more than 5 or 6 data points to make a
pretty good estimation here, since the overall population of all jelly beans
tends to be rather homogenous in weight. Another measurement approach that
sticks with me and fascinates me is the usage of tracers, or markers. When you
for instance want to assess the population of fish in the sea, you apply the so
called re-catch method. You go out to the sea and catch some fish. Let's say
1000 exemplars of a kind. You mark them and put them back into the water. After
some time you catch 1000 exemplars again. Now you catch fish with and without
the marker. You now have a ratio and with some nifty calculation model you come
up with a pretty accurate number considering a certain error threshold.
Mindblowing. There are so many more examples and problems discussed in the book.
It is amazing. I can really recommend this read for anyone being interested in
the topic, even though the book is pretty long ride. I want to get into it again
in the future though.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/How-to-Measure-Anything-Hoerbuch/B005MZV930
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Douglas_W._Hubbard
