I got into Outliers, written by Malcolm Gladwell. The author also narrates the
audiobook which is pretty cool. The point being made is that success and loss in
life can mostly be predicted by the environment’s circumstances. It goes along
the theory of nature versus nurture. For instance, your chances to become a
professional ice hockey player goes towards 0 when you are born in the latter
half of the year, which just blew my mind. Almost all professionals in this
field are born between January and April. So based on the statistics and the
promotion system in the professional field of ice hockey you have the best
chances to get to the top when you are born on the first of January. This
appears to be because of small differences in young players physical and
cognitive abilities. A child 4 months older may be taller, faster, stronger and
smarter. Maybe just a little bit, but often enough a little bit enough. Outliers
portraits more examples like this along all kinds of industries and carriers of
known professionals like Bill Gates. It shows that there is a privilege given to
lucky ones. That enables success for people becoming high performers based on
the right timing combined with a lot of very hard work. When you put in the
hours you can certainly make a difference and become very very good at
something. And the right amount of lucky circumstances mixed together opens the
doors which stay closed to most of the other people out there. Another
enlightening point being made in the book is that actually everyone of us is
creating opportunities for others. So these then accumulate over time and change
the world forever. Like, everyone talks about Einstein but nobody talks about
his wife. Imagine how nobody talks about you and which difference you actually
make out there without anyone knowing about it. I liked this piece a lot and can
certainly recommend.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Outliers-Hoerbuch/B004V7O9G4
• https://twitter.com/Gladwell
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nature_versus_nurture
