I got into How Emotions Are Made, written by Lisa Feldmann Barrett. Simply one
of the most transformational books for me. The thing that amazed and actually
pleased me the most was that the theories and explanations in the book confirm
the way I understand my own being and thought process. I often force it upon
other people in social interactions, more or less consciously. Getting
explanations for why human behaviour is implemented in a certain way was such a
revelation to me and I am really grateful for the point of view in this book.
You get a pretty rational and scientific idea about how the brain basically
works from a social point of view. Barrett is a professor for psychology and
uses a lot of neurological studies for her theory of constructed emotions. It
appears to be that the development of our brain is heavily influenced by
linguistic relativity and that the conceptual understanding of the world is
inevitably bound to the cultural and linguistic backgrounds we operate in. Using
language as a means of labelling and identification of concepts seems to be the
ground on which emotions form and develop insight of us. The depth of
consequences of brain and emotional development is described by the idea of
emotional granularity. The more granular you are able to identify and express
your inner workings the better you are off to understand the world around you.
Along the lines of linguistic relativity and emotional granularity one can start
to understand what the theory of constructed emotions means and implies. There
is nothing like truth or reality within social environments because we can just
not agree on what is "real". Everyone constructs its own social reality and
operates within the boundaries of it, as an encapsulated agent. A little bit
like a bubble which membranes try to reconcile the physical world around us with
the mental representations of it inside of us. This makes all perfect sense and
accurately explains how you can trigger people with just the wrong word being
used in a conversation. Meaning and reference tend to be so vastly different
which makes synchronization between humans inevitably necessary and yet to
complicated. Barrett explains how our body budged influences how well we are
able to operate, because everything we do and everything we run into in our
every day lives taxes on our body budged. And then, sometimes, we just snap. So
everyone make sure to eat, sleep and move enough and well in order keep your
body budged in balance. This is really really important. When your body budged
is low and you cannot fuel it back anymore, you burn out. So, How Emotions Are
Made is an amazing book and I can highly recommend it to just everyone.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/How-Emotions-Are-Made-Hoerbuch/B01MV7QLBA
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisa_Feldman_Barrett
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emotional_granularity
