I got into A Crack In Creation, written by Jennifer Doudna. She is one of the
CRISPR pioneers. That she got interested in bio-chemics was rather random. Her
father left books on her bed occasionally and lighted up some sparks in the dark
eventually. Such a nice idea for kids in general. Anyway, I had to do a genetics
101 refresh to understand the matter a little bit better. Check the videos
below. They explain a bit what DNA is, how it kind of works, what phages are and
why this matters for CRISPR. It was in fact that nobody wanted to revolutionize
gene engineering in the first place. What rather happened was that a couple of
people where interested in how bacterias' immune systems work. Bacteria are
threatened by viruses and they kind of fight against each other on a molecular
level. This is then how people found the CAS proteins which trace and cut DNA
and effectively paste single strain RNA chains. The book blew me away
completely. Like, we discovered atoms and got the atom bomb. We discovered bits
and got the internet. We discovered DNA and got CRISPR. With these technologies
we can actually engineer real dragons, unicorns and meta humans. Challenges
ahead but the potential in the future is probably kind of endless. It is also
freaking crazy that you can basically do gene editing at home with a little bit
of money, interest and time. The last third of the book was a lot about ethical
issues, but I think that it is clear that we will enhance humans on all kinds of
levels over time. One argument is that evolution is based on random mutations.
It happens anyway. There happen around 10 million DNA mutations within your body
in every single second. This is because DNA gets damaged by environmental
factors and cells repair the damaged areas in a sloppy, rather random way.
Having more control over these processes makes kind of sense. The implications
for societies are huge though once these efforts are made consciously. From here
on, mankind will never be the same.

• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zwibgNGe4aY
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YI3tsmFsrOg
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MnYppmstxIs
• https://www.audible.de/pd/A-Crack-in-Creation-Hoerbuch/B071K6XBDN
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jennifer_Doudna
