I got into The Dichotomy Of Leadership, written by Jocko Willink and Leif Babin.
This is the standalone successor of Extreme Ownership. The dichotomy is the
balance of opposing forces. You want people to follow the rules, and at the same
time want them to be free and autonomous so they can live up to their own
potential. Like, we are all fish, we only need to find the right water for
everyone. The book primes leadership to be winning at all costs, which to
understand correctly and not only rolling your eyes, you have to get into the
book. It explains in detail what that actually means and how it works. Be aware
that the style of the book is a little bit too militant. A little bit single
sighted on war. When you are easily turned down by the messenger and thus miss
out on the message, this piece will not please you. I got a lot of good insights
on a lot of different aspects of the military, management and life though. Jocko
is often a bit too much, even for me, but I like his messages and I especially
like that he takes the grind. Figure out how to balance leadership and teams. Go
for it and figure out how life works for you. You can do it. Like Steve Jobs
once said, everything around you that you call life was made up by people who
were not smarter than you, and you can change it! Let’s stop for a second and
think about that. Let’s live up to that spirit. And then, what I got from the
book, amongst lots of other things, is that every member of a team has to lead
up and down their own chain of command. Everyone. All the time. And a team might
just be any social group. Your family, your sports club, your poker round, your
company, your Seals team. I enjoyed The Dichotomy Of Leadership greatly and it
is one of my favourites so far. Plus, it is narrated by the authors themselves.
So you can enjoy the sound of Jocko's voice while laying in bed. Get some!

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Dichotomy-of-Leadership-Hoerbuch/B07BN5NS6V
• https://www.audible.de/pd/Extreme-Ownership-Hoerbuch/B015TVHO6M
• https://twitter.com/jockowillink
• https://twitter.com/leifbabin
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYfNvmF0Bqw
