I got into Influence, written by Robert Cialdini. This book is one of a kind I
didn't want to put away. It tells a whole lot of very different short stories
from our every day lives where all kinds of influence play a big role. Influence
is anything that has an effect on something else. So while there are a lot of
things going on around us, influence takes place in very different situations
and comes in very different shapes. In social structures we find incentive and
thread systems everywhere. All animals basically evolved within them. Humans
aligned their behaviours according to incentives and threads in order to become
better at surviving. The social component plays a key role here. The book
describes a lot of situations in which a person wants something from another.
Compliance professionals for instance practise several strategies of influence
to get what they want. Often this is to sell something. Here are a lot of Sales
and Marketing specific stories discussed and their accompanied strategies
uncovered. These stories are hilarious at times because you certainly find
yourself in the described situations. One thing that stuck with me was the
influence of attractive appearance and how attractive people enjoy an enormous
advantage in society. Hashtag equality. There are cognitive biases we cannot
work around apparently. This is at least what the studies suggest. Another thing
that everyone knows about would be Tupperware parties. They are a nifty Sales
approach to trick people into peer pressure situations to make people spend more
money for things they do not really need. Further, the scarcity principle is
what gets down to us when there is only this single pizza slice on the table
anymore while two hungry people are starring at it. Studies suggest that we want
things more, only because they become rare, and not due to their state of stable
rareness alone. Another fun story from the animal kingdom can be found in
mothering turkeys. They seem to get exclusively triggered by the cheep-cheep
sounds of their offspring, which they do to make her mother care of themselves.
Experiments showed that you can give a baby cat to a turkey together with a
device playing cheep-cheep sounds and the mother turkey will just take care
about the cat without asking further questions. Such trigger features like
sounds or feathers are pretty common and also be taken advantage of by mimics
who tactically deceive other animals in their environment. The book Influence
contains so much more. The Milgram Experiments and Classical Conditioning for
instance. At the end, some astonishing fun facts. 90% of all scientists who ever
lived, live today. And, half of the knowledge mankind gathered together so far,
was just discovered during the last 15 years. Amazing book. I want get into the
book again at a later point in time. I enjoyed listening to the audiobook big
time.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Influence-Hoerbuch/B01LWV063L
• https://twitter.com/robertcialdini
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deception_in_animals
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milgram_experiment
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classical_conditioning
