I got into The Power Of Moments, written by Chip Heath. This one is about the
things that bind us together. This book is about the deliberate design of
moments. The book provides a ton of examples throughout industries and private
life. The thing about moments is that they are everywhere and everyone has them.
We crave to experience special moments. The book provides ideas about how to
make others feel special and what it takes to achieve that. There is quite some
economical interest behind answering questions concerning experiencing a service
or product. Prevalent in the book are examples of our health care systems.
Everyone having to go to the doctor or having to endure a hospital visit
appreciates any little bit of energy put into making the hard times of our
bodies falling apart more comfortable. And if not comfortable, at least less
painful and traumatizing. One story I enjoyed a lot was about engineers building
MRI machines. These people can do everything right in their craft and yet fail
to deliver an acceptable user experience. Once an engineer of such MRIs visited
a hospital witnessing how scared children have been about the big and loud
monstrosities in which they have to hold still throughout the scanning
procedure. The engineers did everything right in terms of hard skills and build
the best machine they could from a technical point of view. And yet they made
little children cry with it. Witnessing these episodes first hand changed
everything. A bunch of engineers decided to deliver something better. One of the
versions they came up with was the experience design of sending children onto a
mission in a spaceship. They developed a whole playbook around that. With
lights, sounds, challenges and everything. This kind of framing lead to the
little patients being thrilled to get into the spaceship. The moments engineers
created here made enduring MRI scans so much more comfortable, because pain
became part of a mission the kids could now volunteer for. The doctors in this
instance told the engineers later that one little girl even asked her parents if
they could come back tomorrow again, because the MRI became such an attraction.
These efforts lead to higher user satisfaction and higher MRI sales of that
kind. This story is a prime example of caring for others and make them feel it.
This is an example of managing the environment and having the foresight of
taking away the pain where it hurts the most without sacrificing quality. The
book was a bit lengthy but extremely useful after the fact.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Power-of-Moments-Hoerbuch/B075ZWTTWP
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chip_Heath
