I got into Give And Take, written by Adam Grant. That one is about different
categories of people. There are givers, takers and matchers. Givers are people
who try to help a lot. Takers are people who try to gain from every situation.
Matchers are a mix of these two. They try to balance what they get and what they
give. Looking at people this way creates a certain economical framework in which
members interact, thrive and exploit any given situation. There are a lot of
game theoretical aspects to it. The bottom line is that givers win in a
marathon. If it is only about achieving short term goals, then takers can be
considered to win most of the time. The anatomy of human networks is
particularly interesting. Especially because the book provides examples of real
people which are surprisingly still alive at the time of writing. Listening to
the audiobook, I had a couple of moments in which the story being told was so
fascinating when I then realized that there is a real chance to actually meeting
the protagonists one day. This feeling filled me with joy and positive energy.
For instance, the world's most connected individual according to certain studies
is Adam Rifkin. In over a decade he made over 10.000 introductions, connecting
more people than anyone else we know of. The book explains a lot about
relationship management. Like putting the right pieces together, there are
fundamental aspects of how to engage with people so that a real human
relationship can be established and maintained. Sometimes it might be as simple
as finding some common ground that accelerates belonging between us. One minor
part of the book, but one of the most interesting parts to me was that there is
something like the investment theory of intelligence. It predicts that
intelligence and thus success is a function of interest and effort put into a
problem domain. That means that the manipulation of attention streams
manipulates an individual's economical trajectory. This just makes so much
sense. The book is highly recommended.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Give-and-Take-Hoerbuch/B07F7D58SW
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_Grant
• https://linkedin.com/in/adamrifkin
