I got into How To Talk So Little Kids Will Listen, written by Joanna Faber.
Simply one of the most fundamental books out there I would say. Pure gold. Faber
is a parent educator and focuses holistically on human relationships and
communication skills. The book is structured based on areas of conflict
discussed in a workshop format. Multiple narrators tell their stories of the
every day hustle being a parent. Scenarios and their problems and solutions are
discussed in a natural way. The stories are so lovely. I got really attached to
a lot of them. I liked the aspect of providing children early on with a
vocabulary to articulate and understand their own feelings. Children, just like
any other person, do not behave right when they do not feel right. Creating
awareness of one's self and providing techniques to discover one's own emotional
world is so paramount to personal development. Starting early with that based on
the individual need and capacity makes so much sense to me. Because, once you
make children aware of the concept of problems and solutions, they start looking
for solutions themselves. One particular concept caught my attention and I am
fascinated by that insight. Difficult situations are often emotionally loaded.
With the right technique such as story telling you can do something like
cognitive load shifting. Use creativity to move cognitive attention from the
overwhelming inability of handling the own emotional load to the more rational
parts of the brain in order to regain control on more neutral mental terrain.
That activates different neural networks and shifts attention to a certain
extend. Chances are heated situations become more manageable again. The book has
quite a number of good examples for real world application. Another one most
parents probably know is managing the environment instead of managing the child.
The chances of getting your hand burned is quite low without open fire in the
living room. Gamification was also a cool one here. Check this out if you did
not know it yet. Love it so much.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/How-to-Talk-So-Little-Kids-Will-Listen-Hoerbuch/B01N6F5X5N
