I got into The Black Swan, written by Nassim Nicholas Taleb. It may have been
the first audiobook of Taleb when I said I will never listen to anything again
that he wrote. And here we are now. This is the 4th book of him in my
collection. The narrative here is coupled with Fooled By Randomness. Taleb
points out that Black Swans do actually exist and that we have not the slightest
idea about what to do about them. Also because humans usually do not understand
the nature of black swan events. Talking about any journey, project or
investment, there is often something called like the survivorship bias. And
while humans get used to anything real quick we tend to believe that nothing can
go wrong while in fact everything worked according to plan so far. Though what
Taleb tries to convey is that the absence of evidence does not imply the
evidence of absence. His infamous metaphor is the turkey being fed by a farmer.
For the first 1000 days the turkey has all reasons to believe that life is good
and that the farmer is just a friendly fellow feeding the turkey for the sake of
it. This belief lasts until judgement day, and the turkey is not likely to even
see it coming. This degree of bliss in ignorance pretty much sums up how this
world is being operated by decision makers. Humans are so vastly unprepared for
the most challenging events which are yet to come. We are not able to predict
reliably into the future because we are future blind. Let aside all the darkness
in this thread we get the chance to embrace uncertainty every day and shall
better seek it in order to thrive. The next black swan is always just around the
corner. It may make you fall. It may make you rise. But that may not be up to
you. The book is quite cool. Certainly the topic is amazing.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Black-Swan-Second-Edition-The-Impact-of-the-Highly-Improbable-With-a-new-section-On-Robustness-and-Fragility-Hoerbuch/B07KRPSRMK
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nassim_Nicholas_Taleb
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Survivorship_bias
