MEMO W10 MAR 2024

> Being yourself might be the worst strategy in an ever changing system. -
> [xh3b4sd]

This time is different, because of the ETF follows. And here is the context
within which those flows occur. First, a gigantic cohort of the always online
generations X, Y and Z have become more financially literate than any other
demographics before. We know about everything that is going on, basically
immediately. And today, we manage our wealth accordingly in real time, causing
the wildest price-time compressions on vertical charts. Second, we are coming
out of a zero interest rate environment. We are still working through the
overhang of endless money printing. There are 6 trillion USD earning 5% interest
rate in American money market funds today. That is twice as much as 10 years
ago. The pockets are full, and they want to earn. Parts of those 6 trillion USD
will go out on the risk curve eventually, as soon as rate cuts hit throughout
this cycle. Third, we just made technological breakthroughs in machine learning
applications. That is the AI hype for you right there. People have reason to
believe in a bright future and its tremendous upside. The animal spirits are
certainly back in venture. Fourth, we have to realize that we are just coming
out of a bear market and that the people really want to get going now. Fifth, we
had a great earnings season with over 75% of S&P 500 companies surprising
expectations to the upside. Admittedly, the prior bear market might as well has
kept expectations lower, which made it easier to beat them, but that is market
psychology for you right there. Absolute terms do not matter here, but rather
the realized rate of change on a relative basis. Sixth, this is an election
year, which means that there is quite the political motivation to make the
economy appear strong and healthy. Whether we deal with causation or correlation
doesn't matter, because it's working. Seventh, we are in expectation of the
upcoming Bitcoin halving. Admittedly, the more halvings we get, the less of an
impact do they have on a structural level. Understanding that, it is even more
so important to understand that effective structural changes do not matter that
much in the grand scheme of things. Because the dream is alive and well. And
then eighth, the American spot Bitcoin ETFs, causing constant 9 figure inflows
of external capital every day of the workweek. Put all of those factors together
and it becomes hard to argue against this simple idea. We are witnessing a sea
change unfolding in front of our eyes. And chances are that all the crypto
native traders that fail to understand this sea change, will end up selling low
and buying back in high. I think many will get it wrong this time around,
because they apply an old rule book to the wrong cycle. BTC is hovering around
its all time high of roughly 69,000 USD. And funny enough, BTC did already break
all time highs in various fiat currencies that are less hard than the US Dollar.
As we reach and breach those psychological levels, the crypto natives become
cautious and start asking questions. It might very well be that many of the
seasoned crypto traders sell and rotate early, because they are trained to
anticipate breakdowns that would otherwise take their hard earned paper gains
away. From here on out, this is what I see happening. The people trying to
capitalize anticipated weakness, in the world of today, are not likely to get
the prolonged weakness that they are trained to anticipate. And the reason for
that are the constant inflows of external capital into the new American spot
Bitcoin ETFs. Just early this week we experienced a market wide shakeout in a
crypto typical magnitude of some 15%. BTC and ETH wicked to the downside and at
least ETH quickly rose beyond its prior level within a matter of hours. The
steady buy pressure that we do already see is slowly but surely trickling down
the risk curve. And in my mind, what we experienced early this week is only the
beginning of a sea change that is very likely to accelerate in the coming
quarters. Every week we will now hear from financial institutions and capital
allocators that they are enabling their clients to participate in the spot
Bitcoin ETFs as well. Last year the recommended crypto exposure globablly was
exactly zero. From this year on forward the recommended crypto exposure is at a
minimum between 1 and 3 percent. American financial advisors have almost 50
trillion USD in assets under management. Their clients will be allowed to tap
into that crypto exposure over time. Potential future inflows amount to the
extend of roughly 1 trillion USD. That is about one third of all the degenerate
crypto market cap as of today. Anyone selling too much too soon will likely end
up in the uncomfortable position that there will not be any good entry anymore
to come back in. Those mistakes will in my opinion inevitably create forced
buyers. So I say, higher! I am not saying there will be no drawdowns anymore.
It's gonna be a big wick! Shakeouts like seen this week will happen in crypto
typical fashion, but they may be structurally different and they may not
materialize over longer time horizons. Shakeouts will happen, and in the context
of all of the above, they are likely to make a fool out of those who do not see
the signs. If you, dear reader, are allocated in the hardest fucking assets out
there, then do yourself a favour and ignore all the noise. Zoom out, and try to
get the big things right. Buy-and-hold has outperformed almost all contenders in
the history of finance. And when we are posed with a decision of utmost
importance, then we should try to resort to the few things that we know to be
always true. Here are some things that will always be true. The world will
always become more digital. People will always want to make progress. People
will always want to remain free. And people will always want to own the hardest
fucking assets out there. Higher!

---

The meme coin casino captures the smartest and the dumbest money. Anyone
gambling here makes a random walk down the slot machines. There is nothing here
but liquidity, and that liquidity is simply chasing the most compelling stories.
Everyone involved should understand the kind of game they are playing. Nobody
here is reading white papers. Everyone is simply looking for a greater fool to
sell to. And I am not going to lie, there are many fools out there. I could not
find reliable numbers for the amount of people engaging in any form of
speculation. Speculation here includes any financialized short term game like
lotteries, betting and trading. My very rough estimation would be that about 50%
of any given population engages in any form of speculative activity over the
course of any given year. Meme coins are the modern lottery. And admittedly,
they helped to keep this industry alive throughout the cycles, because they sold
hope to the desperate. In turn, the desperate became giants, on which shoulders
we stand ad infinitum. The meme coin sector as a whole gained over 170% within 7
days. And due to its fragile nature those numbers might as well be twice as high
or literally zero by the time you are reading this. The top 5 meme coins by
market cap are currently DOGE, SHIB, PEPE, BONK and WIF. SHIB is the second
largest meme coin here and was running the hardest, with over 300% gains within
7 days. WIF is the only thing that created an immediate emotional reaction
inside of me when I saw it first, days after it got deployed. Before I were to
gamble here, I would like to see a more material market reset of some odd 50% in
the meme coins, which may never come. Either way I am totally fine watching the
zoo from the sidelines. Don't sweat it, the next meme will come.

---

On a healthy note, the ETH / BTC ratio on the monthly chart is slowly grinding
up. As expected, ETH becomes more valuable again compared to BTC over time. Our
position here remains steadfast. The ETH burn streak is at 11 days and counting
as per the Ultrasound Money website. That means Ethereum blockspace is in very
high demand, making ETH deflationary. The fee burn from L2s alone has hit 15%
over the past 30 days, meaning the Ethereum ecosystem keeps scaling via its
satelite rollups. And the somewhat controversial rollup Blast made it into the
top 3 of rollups by total value locked, which is about 7.5% of L2 market share.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2019/0000290
