MEMO W08 FEB 2024

> Any asset is bound to fail over time. That is simply due to the changing
> nature of the world we live in. - [xh3b4sd]

My understanding of the macro is that we are roughly half way through the bull
market already. I base this theory on the global liquidity cycle, which bottomed
around June 2022. That was also the time around when ETH put in its cycle
bottom. 19 months and 180 percent later ETH is sitting at around 3,000 USD
again. We have already seen in January that many stocks and indices put in new
ATHs. My initial reaction to that was fear. The higher we go the more likely it
will become that the music stops, at least for a while. I saw some statistics
that ATHs in the S&P500 imply higher prices 12 months after these respective
ATHs, in 16 out of 17 cases. The global liquidity cycle is estimated to top out
around September of 2025, which is about 18 months away from now. What seems odd
to me is that 2024 has become too easy already. Just about everything is up, and
we can expect everything to get a lot more easy over the next 12 months. We
could ask which role interest rates play in our liquidity based models. There
are no obvious repetitive cycles to be found when looking at interest rates.
Whatever the Federal Reserve is doing is a reaction to economical and political
whims. And more often than not the Federal Reserve is any combination of too
early, too late, too active, and too passive. In that light, interest rates
operate within global liquidity cycles like everything else, with the caveat
that interest rates beget more or less liquidity in reflexive ways. Just this
week Larry Summers called for rate hikes with a 15% probability. Truflation
trends towards 1.6% CPI whereas the FED is tracking 3.1%. Truflation might be
undershooting to the downside, since they were also overshooting a lot to the
upside around June 2022. The market is pricing in an ever decreasing amount of
expected rate cuts for 2024, and that decrease might not be over just yet. As it
stands right now, higher for longer might still be on the table. And that will
be alright.

---

Two notes on stablecoins. First, Circle stopped issuing USDC on Tron. We can
speculate why they did that and why that matters. Tron is some centralized
system on which almost 40% of all stablecoins reside. Almost all of the
stablecoins on Tron are USDT. The USDT issuer is Tether, which is Circle's
competitor. My instinct tries to interpret the action that Circle has taken this
week as an act of economic war. Circle puts its foot down and makes a stance for
the sake of its own image, which tries to optimize for favourable US regulation.
It is widely expected for Circle to make its IPO at some point this year. And in
order for USDC to be perceived as the cleanest stablecoin blessed by US
regulators, Circle has to draw very clear lines between itself and Tether's
USDT. The game is on. And second, stablecoin marketcap on L2s is sitting around
3.5 billion USD as per GrowThePie. That number seems to be steadily increasing.
The plain amount here is not impressive at all, considering that all of the
stablecoin marketcap is almost at 140 billion USD. The encouraging dynamic to
realize here, as I see it, is the fact of a steady upward trend of stablecoins
used on L2s. We could argue stablecoins are not a good proxy for L2 adoption or
growth. We could say that the ways in which stablecoins are utilized within the
crypto industry, are rather manifold. Some denominate their wealth in a more
stable digital asset without doing really anything onchain. Some use it as a
base pair for trading more volatile assets. Some use stablecoins to pay
employees or to pay for services onchain. Stablecoins are somehow used in so
many different ways that it becomes hard to tell what is what. And at that point
I find myself at both ends of the bellcurve meme saying "up is up".

---

Talking about Eigenlayer restaking in the context of Ethereum. Restaking is the
concept of staking ETH multiple times. You can stake your ETH once in liquid
form and then stake that liquid staked ETH again for another purpose. Staking
ETH has the purpose of securing the Ethereum Blockchain Network. The liquid form
of staked ETH is for instance stETH and rETH, which can be staked again in
Eigenlayer. The purpose of restaking is to secure other crypto economic use
cases. For one, restaking makes for more yield, and more risk. And two,
restaking allows any network or primitive to utilize the economic security of
Ethereum without having to bootstrap that economic security themselves. That is
a huge unlock for new creative ways of economic activity across all DeFi. Now,
people tend to be worried about new DeFi primitives that introduce creative ways
of leverage, which in turn tends to cause a lot of trouble eventually. We could
ask whether restaking is a form of leverage. In the traditional sense the answer
should be no. Because restaked ETH cannot be liquidated based on changes in the
price of ETH itself, which is how margin based leverage works. Traditional
margin accounts define a certain collateral threshold that fluctuates with price
changes of the underlying collateral and effectively provides a range of
available leverage that way. Margin accounts get liquidated if collateral
thresholds get crossed. Restaking does not define any such margin and therefore
does not have any liquidatable collateral threshold. The "liquidation" of
restaked ETH is called slashing, which intends to penalize malicious validators.
You have to be dishonest in order to get your staked or restaked ETH slashed.
And having bad intentions is fundamentally different from random price changes
that no single actor can be made responsible for. Based on that reasoning I like
the framing of restaking to be a form of corporate bond. When you restake your
ETH, you effectively lend out assets in order to underwrite some kind of
economic activity. By underwriting another business you assume the risk of that
business and its ability to pay you back in the future, in full, plus interest.
If we squint hard enough we can try to make the case for restaking being a form
of leverage and I can totally understand the arguments. The point here might
simply be this. Institutional restaking operates under fundamentally different
and more predictable circumstances than retail trading on margin accounts.

---

At last some boring numbers. We saw 2.5 billion USD in digital asset inflows
within a single week, of which 99% came out of the USA. That gets to show why
the ETF approvals by the SEC are so relevant to the crypto industry in terms of
cash flow. Murica is where the money's at.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2021/0001011
