MEMO W09 MAR 2024

> Losing time is the single most expensive mistake you can ever make because
> once lost it will never come back again. - [xh3b4sd]

Last week I shared the idea that we are roughly halfway through the bull market
already. One follow up question resulting from that assumption could now be how
to manage the approaching end of the current bull market. There are some major
mistakes that people tend to make when managing their own money. One
particularly costly and painful mistake is to get married to an idea. That means
you may have a particular price target in mind for ETH. For instance, you say to
yourself that you are not going to sell ETH until it hits a price of 10,000 USD.
A similar form of that very same mistake is to have a specific portfolio value
in mind, that you tell yourself you have to achieve during this cycle. For
instance, you say to yourself that you are not selling your ETH until your
portfolio value reaches 1,000,000 USD. The mistakes made here can be summarized
like this. You merely express the desire for the world to become what you want
it to be in the future. As far as financial markets are concerned, you cannot
simply wish some asset price or portfolio value into existence. You cannot just
say how much money you want to have and then expect to get exactly that. The
world does not work that way. What we can therefore establish here is that the
price of ETH and the value of your portfolio do not matter if you want to figure
out at what point in time you should exit the markets. Maybe think about it this
way. Every bit of information out there is one data point. You come across many
data points every day. Some of them are important, others are rather irrelevant.
Another way to frame this is the so called "signal to noise ratio". Most of the
information out there is noise. But some of the information out there makes for
a pretty good signal. What all of this comes down to is that you have to take
the world for what it is, and not what you want it to be. Financial markets do
not care about what you want the world to be. So you need to trade the market
that is there right in front of you. And you need to adapt your ideas and your
understanding of the current environment based on the signals that you get over
time. With every new day, there is new information to process, and your mental
models need to stay up to date based on what is happening in the world. The
natural implication for what we just learned here is that you will either end up
selling too early or too late. Nobody can time the market perfectly, and you
should not feel bad about your disability to be any different in that regard. It
is what it is. If anything, try to optimize for good times and try to minimize
painful regrets, so that on the way down you do not give back everything that
you made on the way up.

---

We have to take note of geopolitical events now. The military conflict between
Russia and Ukraine is about to be escalated further by western foreign policy. A
short summary of how we got here. Shortly after the second world war concluded,
the Soviet Union was perceived as a thread by western countries. To that end
NATO was established in 1949 to guaratee the mutual assistance and defense of
western countries against the Soviet Union. Around the year 1990, the soviet
union fell apart, which is now about a quarter century ago. Ever since more
western countries joined NATO and more defense capabilities were deployed ever
closer to the eastern Russian borders. The development of NATO was eventually
perceived by Russia as acts of aggression. In response Russia annexed Crimea in
2014. After western foreign policy suggested that Ukraine may join NATO, Russia
subsequently invaded Ukraine in 2022. Here is where we get to the point at which
blockchain technology becomes important. The global financial system is
controlled primarily by the western world. After Russia's invasion of Ukraine in
2022 the financial system and thus the US Dollar got weaponized in severely
impactful ways. Russian assets have been frozen and seized to the estimated
extend of more than 300 billion USD. The headline is now to use these seized
assets for Ukraine aid in their military conflict against Russia. If the
objective of western foreign policy were to be peace and prosperity for all,
then any evaluation of efficacy would have to deem our diplomatic efforts to be
either incompetent, or malevolent. Neither of those judgements is good. The free
world is not all that free anymore. Money is weaponized in financial warfare.
Conflicts are purposefully escalated without any voter consent. Bridges are
burned beyond repair. And all we can take away from this life is that there is
no rule or law, but what you can or cannot do. These are powerlaw dynamics dear
reader. The promise of crypto has always been to be freed from the whims of
corupted backroom committees. Should the seized Russian assets be used to
purchase weapons that kill Russian soldiers, then we are crossing into a new
alternative reality that bears more potential for harm than we have seen for a
while. Western administrations have completely lost the plot and once again
citizens around the world find themselves caught up in systems surounded by the
enemy within. Crypto was created to defend property rights of the individual
against corruption. Bitcoin and Ethereum represent freedom technology. Let us be
free.

---

Off to the numbers. L2Beat is a fantastic website to learn about the growing
number of L2 rollups. There we can see a beautiful chart of Ethereum based
transaction througout over time. Just this week I saw Ethereum L1 the very first
time on position number 4. That means there have now been 3 rollups to
consistently process far more demand than the Ethereum L1 itself. And that
means, we are scaling Ethereum. Not only do we scale Ethereum in its available
supply of transactions per second, but also in its natural demand of economic
activity. On top of that, all of the Ethereum ecosystem was just seen to scale
to the extend of almost 10 Ethereum L1s, as it is expressed as scaling factor on
L2Beat. The economic security amassed by the Ethereum ecosystem did now also
cross 100 billion USD, of which the L2 ecosystem accounts for roughly 30 billion
USD at this point.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2020/0000764
