MEMO W17 APR 2024

> Usage over possession. This will drive the future. - [xh3b4sd]

Over the past couple of weeks some debates have started around the amount of ETH
issuance that Ethereum uses to secure the network. Some researchers think that
Ethereum is paying more than it should for securing the network. The argument
here is related to the idea of a balanced household budget, and what it takes to
achieve such a balance. The main concern some researchers are trying to address
here is the amount of ETH staked relative to the total supply of ETH. Some
arguments raised concerns that one day all of the ETH in existence could
potentially be staked. The amount of ETH staked is one important metric to
consider for a healthy and sustainable blockchain network, because staked ETH
implies ETH tokens wrapped by another token to some extend. Examples of wrapping
ETH could be liquid staking or restaking. And since wrapping ETH does always
imply some form of risk then all of ETH staked might become a systemically
critical issue given that the majority of ETH staked is wrapped in some third
party ETH derivative contract. So for one we do not want to overpay for
security. And then we want to make sure that the majority of ETH in existence is
not wrapped in all kinds of smart contracts that implicitly carry all kinds of
risk with them. I have one interesting data point to contribute here, based on
my own anecdotal observations. So far I have not seen a significant proof of
stake network that ever had more of their native tokens staked than roughly 80%.
So far, we have never seen a relevant proof of stake network that had 100% of
its tokens staked for a significant amount of time. The current ETH issuance
curve predicts a real total staking yield of 1% per year at 80% of ETH staked,
and that is including all MEV related yields. If we consider 1% of staking yield
at 80% of all ETH staked, we could maybe look at the ETH issuance debate this
way: "John Bull can stand many things, but he cannot stand two per cent.". That
timeless wisdom was once brought forth by Walter Bagehot, expressing the
observation of some form of financial eqiulibrium. Throughout the decades and
centuries, all kinds of investors, on average, have one thing in common. They
are unwilling to tollerate a yield below 2% for their hard earned money.
Engineering and mechanism design back and forth, the socio economic perspective
tells us that all of ETH will never be staked, simply because the current
issuance curve does already cause too much pain for ETH stakers at 80% of all of
ETH staked, because at that point everyone is only getting 1% yield anymore. And
that is not good enough for anyone. Given only that line of thought we could
argue that the concerns of having all of ETH staked one day are rather
unreasonable. One interesting question to ask here now is how much additional
yield one can get using protocols like Eigenlayer, considering the additionally
taken risks involved. My expectation would be that people would be wanting to
increase their yield from 1% to 3% or maybe even 5% using all kinds of layering
techniques, once 80% of all ETH staked has become a reality. At that point, some
will certainly go far out on the risk curve. But most wont, simply because it
would imply too much of a bad trade from a risk adjusted point of view. My
currently more realistic assumption would be that there won't ever be more than
60% to 80% of ETH staked, for a variety of reasons as described above. And then,
generally speaking, instead of trying to artificially defining a magic number of
some desired amount of ETH staked, and instead of prematurely defining a magic
curve that will never be able to account for most of the future unknowns, it
would be a more pragmatic and more antifragile approach to make unstaked ETH
more attractive and competitive across the available crypto economic systems
than trying to manually configure the amount of ETH issued in perpetuity. Let
the market decide what is right and good.

---

In Ethereum land we saw some headlines about its Q1 profitability. With 1
billion USD revenue in Q1 2024, Ethereum has a profitability of around 35%, which is
used to effectively do something akin to share buybacks. That equates to roughly
0.1% of quarterly share buybacks relative to Ethereum's market cap. That alone
might not be dramatically relevant in the grand scheme of things. What is more
important here is that Ethereum as a blockchain network is profitable at all.
And among all economically relevant L1 blockchain networks, Ethereum is the most
profitable of them all. For comparison, Ethereum had a positive cashflow of 370
million USD in Q1 2024. Bitcoin had a negative cashflow of almost 4.5 billion
USD in that same time period, and Solana had a net negative cashflow of almost
800 million USD. A net positive cashflow implies a positive security budget,
which makes for healthy long term economic security. A net negative cashflow
implies a negative security budget, which makes for unhealthy long term economic
security. The future outlook for Ethereum remains to expect the current positive
security budget. And the future outlook for Bitcoin and Solana remains to expect
the current negative security budget. Now what does this mean? I think nation
states and blockchain networks can operate under negative security budgets for
far longer than any individual can remain solvent betting against them. And
while there might not be a simple bet to be had only based on either security
budget, what will be more interesting to see in the long term is how blockchain
networks may develop in order to address their individual security budget
concerns.

---

There was an interesting thought I came across last week regarding higher
interest rates and their impact for potential capital allocation. At the moment
we do only expect one or two modest interest rate cuts in 2024. We are in the
higher for longer environment. At the same time commercial real estate as an
asset class does not promise any meaningful returns in the foreseeable future,
compared to its performance in the past. I could not find accurate and
conclusive data, but let's assume there is well over 1 trillion USD invested in
US commercial real estate, which is mostly financed using debt. The funds that
conclude, roll over or look for allocation may not be as likely anymore to
choose commercial real estate as an asset class in the short to medium term. And
that implies that this money has to go somewhere. Let's say that within the next
18 months about 300 billion USD are looking for a way to be allocated. That
excess capital may has to go out on the risk curve as global liquidity will
rise. And with that tech stocks and blockchain networks may catch a bit from
what has once been a preference in commercial real estate, simply because higher
rates make the gamble for certain asset classes not worthwhile anymore.

---

At last, I would like to invite anyone of my readers to reach out, if there are
any questions or ideas for collaboration. I want to write about your startup,
strategic execution and elegant mental models. My brand archetypes are sage,
outlaw, magician and creator. If you would like me on your cap table as an angel
investor, then feel free to send your pitch my way. If you would like my
feedback or engage in an interesting conversation, then I am happy to chat or
have a nice dinner over some sweet red wine. If you are a writer yourself, then
I would love to talk about the art of writing and maybe get your feedback on my
writings here. If you think we should work on something cool together, then
please reach out and let's be friends.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2019/0000287
