MEMO W20 MAY 2024

> When you believe in mankind and our common progress towards the future you
> should just keep owning the market and upper your positions gradually. -
> [xh3b4sd]

Crypto legislation attempts continue in the United States. It does somehow not
make too much sense for the Democrats to be opposed to this industry and its
technology. I am trying to come up with a compelling theory that steelmans this
seemingly backwards positioning in an election year. In my mind we will look
back at this very time in the future, realizing those were the days of really
important turning points, that, in retrospect, defined the trajectory of the
world economy. All of the politically motivated conflict we witness today
reminds me of the old crypto wars in which the first advances in cryptography
were classified as ammunition and was therefore not allowed to be used by the
average person in their everyday life. We are talking here about the same
cryptography that literally every single human being in the civilized world uses
today, every day, all the time, simply by means of using the internet. Imagine
the military industrial complex and the government would have gotten their way
to keep that kind of innovation away from the free market economy. Imagine how
our very lives would be different today. And just like in the old days, today
there are actors in the government that try to prevent the next evolutionary
stage of crypto and its effects on the world economy, once again.

---

It came to my attention that once again there has been drama on Crypto Twitter
about Ethereum. As for the sentiment check here, the conversations and opinions
I saw were pretty close to as rock bottom as it possibly can be. We do not even
know at this point what qualifies as shitpost over there anymore. The situation
is this dire. Everyone is hating on Ethereum, ranting about how bad it is and
all the things that are wrong about it. Now, we have to take a step back and
take it for what it is. A bunch of mids on the internet posting uneducated
opinions, and my guess would be, without having much skin in the game. I am not
talking about qualified contributors in their public discourse. I am talking
about random anons with cartoon profile pictures. What I think has also become
true on that matter is that many educated and hard working actors in the
Ethereum community have simply logged off Crypto Twitter, causing brain drain
and a decline in sentiment on the app that once had a bird on it. So my takeaway
here is that whatever happens on Crypto Twitter is really just mental illness
and I don't know how anyone is still gasping for relevance in that theatre.
Today I am starkly reminded of Amazon's early days after the dot-com bubble
burst in the 2000s. While all business metrics inside of Amazon were pointing to
healthy growth and a promising future, the market was so frontloaded by earlier
exuberance, effectively resulting in shorting the stock. To put things into
perspective here, when the dot-com bubble burst, Amazon's stock dropped off an
all time high of about 5.53 USD per share around 2000. It took roughly 10 years
to break this price tag on the stock again in around 2010. And then after 10
more years, Amazon's stock made a 30x around the year 2020. I think it is
reasonable to assume that the majors, like Ethereum, will follow a similar turn
of events. And all of that will take time. Our plans are measured in centuries.
And then, as always, as soon as price goes up again, the technology will have
improved dramatically.

---

GME had a moment this past week again. This is the GameStop saga all over again
in which the common folk gives the finger to the big man. The war going on
within the markets here is between wallstreet and mainstreet. Somehow the whole
backstory is complicated. What we can take away for us is that we just witnessed
a pulse check on animal spirits. If anything, there is retail out there that
wants to gamble. And all the people are waiting for is a compelling reason to go
all in again. If anything, remember this, John Bull can stand many things but he
cannot stand two per cent. That means people are not happy with low yield. The
people are out there and they want to make some money. Those animal spirits run
in waves, and one day the confluence of many such waves will bring a flood of
liquidity back to all time highs for almost any asset that trades.

---

This here is a bit far deep in the trenches of MEV, but for those who are in the
know, here is a story for you. Low Carb Crusader got indicted by the DOJ with
charges of wire fraud and up to 20 years in prison. The case here is about an
exploit in the mevboost relay software that caused an MEV bot to be robbed by
another MEV bot for some 20 million USD. The crazy story that happened here
about over one year ago was that bots fight bots onchain. The issue here though
was that no strict onchain activity was exploited. The exploit was possible
because an MEV bundle could be made visible by the attacker, which by design is
not how it should be, exactly because all kinds of vulnerabilities do unfold in
second order consequences when MEV bundles can be inspected before they are
executed onchain. It will be interesting to see how those actions by the DOJ
will effect prosecution and adjudication of various MEV related activities in
the future. And their name was Low Carb Crusader.

---

Some interesting numbers at last. The State of Wisconsin now holds about 100
million USD worth of Bitcoin by proxy of the ETF products. This is the very
first account of state owned crypto funds inside the USA, and it will not be the
last. As far as retail activity is concerned, we can see retail trading volume
on Coinbase sitting at 56 billion USD throughout all of Q1 2024. In comparison,
we saw 256 billion USD of institutional trading volume on Coinbase within the
same time period. That means of all trading volume on Coinbase, retail did only
account for 18%. At the hight of the bull market in Q4 2021 this share of retail
trading volume was almost twice as much with 32%. Way to go. And another
interesting data point I came across this past week. Base accounted for almost
50% of all trades on Uniswap in April across all deployed chains. It's Base
season after all.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2020/0000705
