MEMO W12 MAR 2024

> How to think is way more important than what to think. - [xh3b4sd]

Anecdotally, this week I heard something along the lines of "this crypto bull
market is only four months old". The point of the Powerlaw blog is to come up
with practical theories about the world we live in. This world is subject to
constant change. We have to define a hypothesis, time and time again, and
reflect on it, time and time again. Every time we make a statement and every
time we come back it we effectively underwrite our theory from scratch.
Underwriting something is the act of assuming risk in expectation of some
benefit. There is no free lunch in this world. And so there is no possible gain
without taking any risk. Continuously trying to benefit from something does
automatically imply to continuously taking on some form of risk. And as we walk
through life, we are committing ourselves to our convictions and their
continuous renewal of the risk we are willing to underwrite, time and time
again. Understanding this very principle is the search for truth. I think
everyone gets to choose whether they want to be in search for truth or not.
Truth has to serve a purpose. That is also why the world isn't just fair and why
the right thing is not always the thing that is going to happen. There is the
choice and those that benefit from it. When you work with money then you have to
know how something actually works. And then it is not really relevant how you
feel about it or what you think the world should be like or whatever. When you
understand the mechanism behind something you can be better off. And being
better off here means not losing money. I am now wondering why somebody would
frame a bull market one way or another. The alternative reality that I believe
in is this. Everything is synchronized with the debt induced global liquidity
cycle, and it lasts about 5 to 6 years from bottom to bottom. If we do not want
to roundtrip all of our gains we have to measure the liquidity cycle from bottom
to top. We also have to understand that assets like BTC and ETH are subject to
delayed liquidity effects. That means that BTC and ETH react to global liquidity
roughly 6 weeks after the fact. The delayed effects do not make much of a
practical difference in cycle length. In any event, we can expect the beneficial
parts of the global liquidity cycle to last for about 30 months from bottom to
top, give or take. As described in previous Powerlaw memos, our reference point
for the current liquidity cycle is at the bottom around June 2022 when ETH
printed its cycle bottom too. For our purposes we can expect a reasonable
minimum of 18 months and an unreasonable maximum of 30 months for any given
liquidity cycle. The attentative reader will notice that we crossed the
reasonable minimum expectation of 18 months liquidity cycle length around
January 2024. From here on out we may or may not get another 12 months of
liquidity tailwinds. Note that all of the moon math here should only serve as
another contextual data point. We always have to understand the current context
and treat the available data points according to any given context. If history
is any guide then it is going to get a lot weirder over the coming months. One
question on my mind is how we are going to work through the typical summer hole
and how the start of the next year is going to turn out. Until then, enjoy the
ride.

---

Last week I wrote about a seemingly forced selloff that impacted the market
overall. We are still in retracing territory with wildly increased volatility to
the upside and the downside. What has been interesting to follow are the BTC ETF
flows. GBTC continues to have massive outflows every day measured in hundreds of
millions of USD. Great to see is that some of the outflows are compensated by
inflows into the other BTC ETFs. The GBTC outflows are somewhat expected, and
expected to continue because of their outrageous management fees of 1.50%.
Compare those fees with BlackRock's IBIT of 0.25% and you understand where the
money is flowing. In other news, we heard some anecdotal estimates of the ETF
sales machine progress. People seem to think that about 20% of capital
allocators are already allowing their clients to participate in the spot Bitcoin
ETFs. Those 20% are expected to grow to 80% by the end of this year. While this
is only anecdotally, this data point helps us understand where we are in the
cycle and what is yet to come. Higher for longer!

---

A quick refresher who BlackRock is and what BlackRock does. BlackRock is the
largest asset manager on the entire planet with a total of roughly 10 trillion
USD in assets under management. Just this week the "BlackRock USD Institutional
Digital Liquidity" fund with the ticker symbol BUIDL became operational on
Ethereum. Crypto Twitter took note of the onchain action when BlackRock's smart
contract was funded with 100 million USD in onchain liquidity. BUIDL is some
form of investment vehicle that generates yield using US Treasury bills and
repurchase agreements, allowing accredited investors to earn income while
holding the token in their non-custodial wallets. Larry Fink did not joke around
when he said tokenization is the future of France. Now the proof is in the
pudding. And the cooking happens on Ethereum.

---

After the recent Dencun upgrade conducted on Ethereum mainnet, we are now seeing
several metrics change as expected. For the first time there have been four L2
rollups that were more scalable than Ethereum mainnet based on the recorded
transactions per second. The transaction count is steadily increasing. Fees paid
by users is dropping significantly. Rent paid by the L2 rollups to Ethereum
mainnet has so far dropped from 2.5 million USD to 570,000 USD. And the number
of distinct addresses interacting with the Ethereum ecosystem on a weekly basis
reached an all time high of more than 4.6 million. All of that means we are in
fact scaling ethereum.

---

At last, I would like to invite anyone of my readers to reach out, if there are
any questions or ideas for collaboration. I want to write about your startup,
strategic execution and elegant mental models. My brand archetypes are sage,
outlaw, magician and creator. If you would like me on your cap table as an angel
investor, then feel free to send your pitch my way. If you would like my
feedback or engage in an interesting conversation, then I am happy to chat or
have a nice dinner over some sweet red wine. If you are a writer yourself, then
I would love to talk about the art of writing and maybe get your feedback on my
writings here. If you think we should work on something cool together, then
please reach out and let's be friends.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2018/0000046
