MEMO W15 APR 2024

> By definition, the thing that nobody prepares for, is the very thing that
> hurts us the most. - [xh3b4sd]

This past week ADA got finally pushed out of the top 10 crypto assets by market
cap. The new entrant taking ADA's place is TON. Recollecting some background
information here. ADA is the native asset on Cardano. TON is the native asset on
The Open Network. Both are L1 blockchain networks. Cardano was founded by
Charles Hoskinson, who was also a co-founder of Ethereum. TON was founded by
Nikolai Durov, who was also the founder of Telegram. The reason why I am
mentioning all of this, is because Cardano never amounted to anything, despite
of uninformed retail participants continuing to bet on it. We say in the short
term the market is a voting machine, and in the long term a weighing machine.
While many keep voting, the market does now finally start to weigh Cardano
relative to other forms of economic activity in the crypto industry. Those kinds
of reratings are absolutely necessary for the sake of our industry. We are still
seeing the most useless grifts being funded for years and years on end. And it
is about time that the actually useful projects get clearly separated from the
rest. To be fair, it is hard to tell the good from the bad. The technologies are
complex. The numbers are confusing, and we don't always know what to really pay
attention to. One rule of thumb that I would like to give you on the way, dear
reader, is to look out for publicly verifiable economic activity. And with that,
try to get an idea about how sustainable this economic activity in front of you
really is. TRON and BNB have quite the economic activity, but it is not fully
clear to me who is running and thus controlling the network. SOL and BTC have
quite the economic activity, but it is not fully clear to me how either network
can operate sustainably for the decades to come, given that their current
security budgets are broken. What we do know is that ETH does already have a
sustainable security budget today. What we do know is that ETH nodes are run by
tens of thousands of individuals and organizations. What we do know is that ETH
secures the second highest amount of crypto economic activity in the entire
world. And what we do know already today is that ETH is the collateral
underwriting all of the cutting edge onchain innovations that this space can
possibly muster. Some have whispered their fears that ETH could be the next XRP.
Nothing could be further from the truth. And I am underwriting this very
conviction again with this week's Powerlaw memo.

---

We cannot fully protect ourselves from black swan events. That is impossible by
the very definition of what black swans are. Black swan events are those events
that are critically impactful to the downside and happen by surprise. The
element of surprise is paradoxically the fateful key component here. What wasn't
anticipated, took us down. Our job in general is to anticipate and protect
against as many scenarios as possible. I am mentioning this because we heard
politically motivated allegations from the US, that Russia is circumventing
sanctions by using Tether for financial transactions. Whether this is true or
not, the important bit here is the idea of US regulators eventually finding more
reasons to justify going after Tether in more creative ways. As to why the
United States would attack Tether in any meaningful capacity we can only
speculate, but that is exactly part of protecting against all eventualities. One
conspiracy we could utter would be the fact that Tether and therefore USDT is
not a purely US controlled export. And one way to change that fact would be to
declare Circle's USDC king in stablecoin land, while trying to cripple Tether's
USDT. We are wandering the shadows of financial warfare, dear reader. Now, how
could the US government possibly tip the scales between stablecoin competitors?
As a reminder, Tether is the largest stablecoin issuer in the world and a lot of
crypto trading is denominated in and collateralized by USDT. And as we can see
in Tether's own transparency reports, Tether is one of the largest holders of US
Treasury Bills, with an allocation of over 70 billion USD backing its
stablecoin. Treasury Bills are financial assets that the US government
ultimately controlls. And with that control comes the power to allow or prevent
certain market participants the access to said financial assets. In an escalated
war scenario between geopolitical superpowers it does not sound too far fetched
to me that the Treasury Bills owned by Tether get either frozen or seized. Even
without seizure, simply freezing Tether's Treasury Bills, and be it only
temporarily, would be enough to send all of our industry on a pretty wild
rollercoaster. The Tether Truthers would be ecstatic.

---

Just this past week Eigenlayer and EigenDA launched. Checking the numbers, there
are over 4 million ETH restaked in Eigenlayer, which is roughly 15 billion USD
of economic value. I am super excited to see how this ecosystem will evolve over
the coming quarters. And another number stands out to me. For quite a while now
the ratios between the ETH / BTC pair and the SOL / ETH pair are both within
range of each other at around 0.05. I find it so funny to think that the
relative distance of those asset valuations are actually equal. I find that so
interesting because I cannot explain why that would possibly the case long term.
And so for now I keep feeling fooled by randomness. Study powerlaw dynamics.

---

At last, I would like to invite anyone of my readers to reach out, if there are
any questions or ideas for collaboration. I want to write about your startup,
strategic execution and elegant mental models. My brand archetypes are sage,
outlaw, magician and creator. If you would like me on your cap table as an angel
investor, then feel free to send your pitch my way. If you would like my
feedback or engage in an interesting conversation, then I am happy to chat or
have a nice dinner over some sweet red wine. If you are a writer yourself, then
I would love to talk about the art of writing and maybe get your feedback on my
writings here. If you think we should work on something cool together, then
please reach out and let's be friends.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001302
