How does the human mind work? When we wonder about the common mysteries of life
we often get stuck in our own echo chambers. Right in our solitary confinement.
It is not that we have a conscious interest in looping back into ruminative
patterns. It is more like being held captive by the dictation of our neural
wiring as it evolved so far. And be it just for the moment.

There is a common misconception of what free will actually means. One critical
component to having the choice is the dimension of time. It might be that we are
to some extend enslaved by destiny within the moment. On the other hand the
moments we are going to experience have yet to be designed. And this is where
the magic happens. Free will does not exist, simply because people have the
wrong believe about it. Humans are prediction machines. We act based on our past
priming right within the moment. Though, what we can do is to plan ahead and
orchestrate the shift of our future predictions, by pure will. This is where
your choice comes into play. You can decide to which extend you want to operate
based on your own conditioning. You have the choice to setup yourself in one way
or another. As soon as life is calling, you have to operate based on your
priming that you have more or less directly chosen for yourself back in the
past. Considering the dimension of time and how it affects our being is key here
in order to understand our own position within any system and where we are going
to. Understanding our own trajectory across space and time is what planning
ahead is all about.

Sometimes looking forward is reversed, leaving you only with that feeling of
remembering something that already happened. Like a magic trick. A bio
chemically induced confusion to make you recognize to access information you
gained in the past. Our particular feeling of the pure recognition is what might
be simulated when perceiving a situation that you apparently dreamed of already.
Mind games. Your brain plays yourself. A déjà vu. Some maybe not so arbitrary
trigger kicks off a reaction chain making you feel you felt already. Got that?
Making you feel you felt already. Input predicts output. Right in the moment,
and you got no choise but to experience based on rules past predictions came up
with so far. From one moment to another. Bit by bit.

One step back. We are humans. Our minds are naturally super messy. Our brains
are prediction machines operating based on input signals and simple guiding
rules making up our neural connections. This complex system changes constantly
in an organic way that it appears to be almost fluid. Like it is a living
organism. The circuits of our biological brain tissue evolve in endless feedback
loops only to do one thing, forming vital connections. Call it coincidence.
Humans evolved to maintain relationships within social systems. We bind together
telling stories ever since. And then, we do not yet really know how to connect
with one another at any given time. It is more like serendipity when it happens.
The sheer dumb luck of the proverbial blind chicken eventually finding a little
grain of corn. Often we operate out of necessity aligning with the rules of the
game that we play depending on the scope we find ourselves in. A scope here
might be your family life or work environment.

In the depths of unforgiving predictions originating in one hemisphere, we
slightly shift the angle towards a more desirable future, based on predictions
of another hemisphere. To create tomorrow. To define in which universe we want
to live in. Think it. Do it. Until you become what you got primed for.




Photo Credits: https://unsplash.com/photos/UVQpJBKJ708
