Who draws all the lines in the sand? I woke up this morning, and I was not
afraid anymore. This here is like exposing your own vulnerability to the ice
cold wind on a beautiful beach. Beaches are dangerous and it is ok to be afraid.
We all are, most of the time. At the beach, it is not about not being afraid. It
is more about being real brave. Braver than yesterday. Because you, because I,
want to create tomorrow. Seth Godin told me to go and make art. And this is what
I am doing here.

Sometimes, it is like you are where you are supposed to be. A place just fine.
Like a beach providing you with everything you need. Providing everything you
desire for the time being. A beach so beautiful. Just good enough. You become
comfortable with the circumstances. The water is cold. But to be honest, water
must be cold. The cold is your friend. Use it. You align yourself with the
environment around you. There is this little tension of give and take. Sometimes
the beach shows you a better way to be. Sometimes the beach gains from your
courage, and you stay synchronized. You connect. You are good. You go your way.
You, and the people around you, and the beach, which you all are gladly part of.
It might even be exciting once in a while because fresh wind shows the direction
we all together can move forward to. The wind makes waves. And you love the
waves so much. We do love them altogether. We do because we appreciate and
understand each other. We have a connection. A real connection. A real human
relationship, because we are real human beings. And we connect. Because we talk
with people. We do not talk at people. We talk with them. Somebody has an idea?
Great! Let's share it and see what we can do with it, together. Progress is
being made. Everyone is electrified. Everyone feels like they are right where
they have to be just to make a thing.

We are human beings. We are the people and this here is our utopia. This here is
our beach. We are around people in our utopia because it means something to us.
It means something to be around these people who build all of this here with us
together. It means something to us because we are the people who build all of
this here with them. They were there yesterday. They will be there tomorrow.
They think what we think is important and we think what we think matters most to
them. What we think and what we say is rarely one and the same. When we talk
with one another, it is often really really difficult to keep up with the pace
of our utopia. We walk. We run. Sometimes we stumble and somebody catches us.
Right in time. We are close. We are one. And yet, we are humans. Humans on a
beach. Our beach. What somebody says and what somebody means is not always
really clear. Though, it does not matter that much, because we are there for
each other and we are doing it together. Because we are close and we are one.
Everyone acts in the best interest of our beach, because it is ours. We made
this. It is, something.

Everyone wants to be where they are, because they have chosen to be where they
are. People had options, and made a decision for themselves. People wanted to be
with us. And now they are here. We created utopia at our beach. Simply because
we wanted to. Nobody needed permission to do it. Nobody had to say, hey, we need
utopia, this is how it looks like and you have to build it that way. No.
Everyone kind of knew what to do straight from their hearts. Because we were in
it together. Because we were talking with one another, which made us understand
what is important to us. We did it for the right reason. Because we were
connected. Though we weren't enough people on the beach. We needed more people
helping us to be better tomorrow. We were even desperately looking for all the
good people coming with us along the way, because our audacious ideas were not
possible to realize without all the brilliant talent out there. Waiting out
there in the dark. So we were calling. We were calling and they came. All the
talent. Talent we were missing. And once we found it, we did not have to miss
talent anymore. Utopia was something. Utopia, was real.

This is a story of falling leaves in autumn. This is a story of starting a
wildfire while running my canoe down a waterfall. As we talk and understand we
go ahead and do what we think is right. Until, something is not so right anymore
and you look back at years of passion turning into something different than it
should be. When we talk we say yes even though we mean no. We think we
understand what we say but we do something else than what we said we want to do.
We are together still, but something is quite not so right anymore. Everyone
knows it, and yet, nobody is saying anything. We do not talk about ideas
anymore. We do not talk with people anymore. We talk at them. We lose our
connection and out of a sudden, one starts to wonder where all the lines in the
sand were coming from. Like they have not been there yesterday. No. I mean.
Doors are closed. Decisions are made. And this is how it goes now. When you draw
a line in the sand, you lose it. When you draw a line in the sand, you make a
decision. A decision for something, and a decision against something else. When
you draw a line in the sand, you tell people where their place is. And now, it
is us versus them. They are talking about us, just like they ever did. Just,
now, you are not so sure anymore what this might mean. Like a bubble just burst.
Like a dream just crushed. All along you just have been on the beach trying to
ride the waves and make a thing. And now, something is wrong with it. It hurts
inside and there is this line in the sand. This line that changed everything.
You are not sure if talking about it is really the way forward. What if, what if
your courage, what if you are now riding a wave, which you are not supposed to
ride. What if somebody does not like that. What if, somebody uses that against
you now. What if you are not allowed to ride the waves anymore. Because doors
are closed, and decisions are made. And you just don't know anymore. If, if
there would only not be this line in the sand. People do not talk anymore.
People think and people do. People make decisions. The next one might hit you.
People tell you now how tomorrow should look like. People lost it. We, lost our
connection. Maybe just by good intent. Silence became our friend. Utopia, came
to be a beach like any other, and yet we still think to be human.

It is like I wanted to, believe. So badly. I wanted the beach to be utopia. This
random beach, this beach like any other, to be something else. I really do not
want to kick up the dust only because I was naive enough to believe there were
no lines in the sand. All along. I just did not want them to be there. Right
there. I wanted to believe. But they are there. They are real. They ever have
been. I understand this now. Because, I woke up this morning. And I was not
afraid anymore.

Photo Credits: https://unsplash.com/photos/KCJKsJPe9pQ
