How to fire someone the right way? This is one of these questions, which you ask
5 people about and as a result you get no more than 6 opinions. So let's get
that straight, with just another opinion from my side.

First, I am not a lawyer. I cannot give any legal advice. And then, legislation
is actually very different in every country. So you got to check what is legal
and what isn't. Not only to be safe, but also to better understand how you would
then play it by the book, depending on where you are or where the legislative
authority of your organization resides.

Second, this topic might be complex, but contrary to conventional wisdom the
process does not have to be hard nor difficult if you play it right, but how you
play the game is totally up to you. In fact, people get fired if there are
unresolvable problems. Though, the mere existence of problems does not
immediately have to lead to a contract termination. Problems are just everywhere
and what matters most is the severity of an issue and how high or low our
thresholds to accept them are configured. It is in the best interest of everyone
to work well together so that each side gets their fair share of freedom and
responsibility. I would like to encourage everyone to think about the quality of
relationships you have and how to foster them. One thing that I would like to
emphasize here is, that if we can be weak together, we can be strong together.
So let's see how to deal with weakness, together.

Now, the question for you might be if you already made a decision. If you carved
it already in stone and the employee in question will definitely be fired I have
nothing more to offer here. But, if you have issues with people you are
responsible for and you do not want to let it slip, this here is for you. When
it comes to letting somebody go, and preparing the whole procedure, there is
nothing like the one single right way. There are many different ways how one
might want to play it, and even more parameters one should consider in order to
make such a complex issue a success, all things considered. One factor here are
the core values of your organization and the overall company culture that you
want to foster and hold up. Another factor certainly is which person got to
prepare and execute the process of communication, expectation management, follow
up and then contract termination if nothing else worked out. One factor is the
personality of the employee you consider to let go and another factor is what
kind of relationship these two people have. The reason for this is that these
people got to more closely interact with each other throughout the process,
because we are going to work very hard in order to turn the ship around and
create a little magic on our way.

Moving on, fairness is a big one that you do not want to neglect. Maybe ask
yourself how you would want to get fired from someone you do not like one bit. I
think it is fair to let people see it coming. What you want is to let people
know in which kind of situation the organization and the employee are together.
You want to tell people very early on in the process how severe the situation
might be. Now, that does not mean to tell people that their contract will be
terminated in 6 months, but rather that there are issues you got to work on
together. By communicating more clearly upfront people get the chance to prevent
certain death so to speak, because they get the chance to develop into a more
desirable direction over time, which then ideally works out for both sides. So
don't just surprise people by hitting them off guard with a 24 hour notice and
without any chance to own their destiny. In case people see it coming and get
their fair share of accountability they just got one excuse less after the fact.
On top you are likely to get the right kind of engagement from them in case they
give a damn about staying with you.

The right style of communication is certainly very beneficial. Being transparent
about the severity of the situation helps everyone to properly understand what
is on the line. Transparency though does not mean that everyone in the
organization has to know about problems with certain employees. There is a
certain level of trust required that everyone has to respect. Only bothering
relevant personnel with the issue at hand is also important because of the
protection of the individual. We act to protect. Surely we protect the system.
Here though, we also protect the individual. Only then the affected employee has
a fair chance to operate within a blaming free environment and without
unnecessary stressors added on top. I think you want your employee or team
member to know what it is that could lead to a potential contract termination.
That has to be very, very specific. You can't just dance around the fire and
hope for rain. You have to be very, very clear what you expect and what they do
not meet in terms of standards, which are required in order to properly execute
on your common profession.

There might be very different reasons for people not living up to the currently
established baseline. It might be about hard skills. Somebody might just be a
bad cook and cannot prepare any meal without too much salt. It might be about
soft skills. Somebody might just be impolite and blows up as soon as somebody is
giving them the wrong looks. One easy example might be that someone comes late
every Monday, or leaves way too early every other Thursday. Something like this
can very clearly be communicated, considering your relationship. At best you
have a relationship in which you do not have to exclusively play the bad cop.
Don't just always be the party pooper. You do not have to celebrate Hanukkah
together, which would be the other extreme on the spectrum. Though, you may have
earned a certain kind of trust and strength in your professional connection
along the way already, wich then makes radical candor just so much more easy to
give and receive. What this means is that you somehow comply to the same lingo.
You may laugh together about the same running gags once in a while or say the
same kind of catch phrases at the end of your meetings. These little easter eggs
really mean something. They strengthen your position wherever you march
together. You can use these strong parts of your connection to better perform on
shaky ground. Given your real human relationship you then may even get the
opportunity to learn about the reasons behind certain behavioural patterns.
Whatever the reasons, you are just more likely to get to the core of the problem
in case your trust balance sheet is not plain empty. There might be really tough
decisions where everything is fine except that one particular behaviour of your
autistic superstar who drives everyone crazy. Because then you got to decide how
much the environment and with it other people are affected and what this as a
result does to your overall organizational health, happiness and culture. You
certainly do not want to create double standards, because then your integrity is
on the line. You cannot afford that one bit. And still you got to figure out if
this one particular misbehaviour outweighs all the productive benefits your
rockstar employee brings to the table overall. You notice that there are many
different cultural aspects to it again, which is why you actually want to
connect to the human being behind the issue so that they get their fair share of
the situation and you get to the core of the problem.

Depending on how you play it, it is not only how it affects you and the other
person. Depending on how you communicate and execute your strategy, there might
be an effect to the moral within your teams or there might be a disruption to
your whole company culture in general. Such a blowup might be something that you
do not want, which is why you want to be very careful and considerate with your
next steps. Everyone around you wants to know how they might get treated if shit
hits the fan. You do not want anyone to be afraid or to fear to be the next one
in case a certain line got crossed. Here, with thoughtfulness you buy peace of
mind within the legions. It is just about communication and making clear what is
important. When you have a certain connection to people, then out of a sudden it
becomes important to all the human beings within the system to be well together.
In this case you have a real human relationship to the people, which gives you a
real chance to be successful. You have a real chance to prevent mayhem, and
pain, and tears. You do not have to rescue the world on your own in one day
again, because you should always have people in responsible departments on your
side who you may want to make act as soundboard or get assistance from. Having a
rubber duck throughout creative processes is usually beneficial so that the
cookie cutter can stay in the back of the drawer. Because that thing doesn't
work for anything anyway. I mean, except for, like, cutting cookies. Right?

Eventually we get to the strategic aspect of improving system health so that we
actually do not have to firing someone. Remember, this is the goal here, turning
the ship around. So, you want to sit together with the relevant employee in
order to make a plan, together. At best, making a plan here means, making a
plan, together. You got this right. Not some ridiculous top down decisions
forced upon an individual, no. Simply because this is not likely to increase
your chances of success. Success here after all means to give the employee the
fair chance to turn the ship around themselves. When you want somebody to fail
anyway, then you can play it however you like. Then you can simply set the bar
too high in the first place and be done with it. But, if you really want to make
it work with the person in question, you should try to give them the fair chance
of showing that they are worth it. You want to show them that they can make it.
You want to show them that you believe in them. You want to show that you
support them along their tough journey. Employee engagement is more likely in
case you together define the way forward. You together come up with a list of
problems and expectations that should be met in order to satisfy your common
professional relationship from this point forward. Give the people options, so
that they, to a certain extend, can chose for themselves. People crave autonomy.
When somebody gets the chance to define what they can do for themselves in order
to develop further and in order to meet expectations, then people are so much
more likely to comply and just give everything for the plan. Because, their own
integrity is on the line. Because, you together defined and agreed on the rules
of the game. Imagine you make a plan yourself. You make it up and force it upon
somebody. Imagine it does not work and you need to fire the person in question.
Imagine how you just gave the employee the excuse why it did not work, for free.
You are the bad cop, because there were some ridiculous expectations nobody
could live up to anyway. They got forced into it. They never agreed to it, and
you just gave them the perfect excuse after the fact. So you want to prevent a
situation in which people can run away from their own responsibility. You want
to prevent people can run away from their own fair share of accountability,
because this is the point at which people can simply login themselves and become
an active part of the situation, by design. This is then how incentive systems
work in social systems. This is how people commit to their own decision, given
they do not fully hate their life, which is not so rare as one might want to
believe by the way. So you want to make a list together and make both sides
understand what is on the list. You want both sides to understand what the items
on the list actually mean and that there is a certain probation period within
certain positive developments should be achieved. From there you can iterate
together and re-asses the situation after agreed upon intervals. Important here
is that you do not lose your common connection and that there is enough support
provided from one side and enough engagement realized on the other side. Then
the employee got a fair chance in order to adapt over time. We need to realize
that certain adaptions just take time. Sometimes a lot of time. Time does not
mean one week or one month. Some things maybe take half a year to improve.
Others may even take two years. I understand that not every organization has the
patience or resources to grant two years to every employee in order to get their
shit together. You might just know for sure that the employee in question by
accident just ended up in the wrong spot. That is ok. Some situations might just
mean that the bank account is empty in twelve days and when you do not see
substantial results within the next 48 hours we got to pull the rug. I
understand that. The point is, that it is about a certain line you want to walk
and certain first principles you want to align with in order to come up with the
best possible results.

Despite all your efforts, there might not have been a learning curve on either
side. There might not have been any positive trend noticeable. At some point you
certainly got to terminate a contract for whatever reasons. That happens. But
even then you want to play it safe and you want to play it fair. At the peak of
a tragedy most characters get revealed. Professionally, what you still can do is
to offer people assistance to find a more suitable workplace. A place in which
they may operate under better conditions. Conditions which are more suited for
their individual configuration. You can make very clear that it is as well in
their best interest to re-gain the balance between profession and peace of mind
again, where then competence has a solid foundation and where character can
develop again. People want to shine, and new opportunities want be found on the
horizon. Sometimes life is just waiting for someone to start over again. You can
nonetheless help people go through the process and make them understand and feel
that they are not alone with their misery. If you are generous, you can even
provide people with longer leave periods than legislation guarantees. It is
certainly a stress relief after the fact, knowing one does have some time to
find something new. I have yet to see how this may backfire other than on your
bank account. What you ultimately want to prevent is resentment and viciously
evil behaviour targeted at you or your company. When you play it fair and do
your best, when you play it safe and provide radical candor to your people which
you are responsible for, then chances are that such a tragedy, such tough
decisions, these more ugly parts of our job, can even be something like
successful, all things considered.

As closing words, I want to reiterate that the suggested approach here focuses
on real human relationships. There are a lot of industries out there in which
nobody cares about you as an individual. For now, that is just state of the art
in a lot of places. So when you do not have or do not want this particular kind
of access to people, your uphill battle will just be so much harder and your
likelihood to turn the ship around approaches negative numbers. You will then
just be fine trading one soul for another. Do you. Though I think, everyone
would just be so much better off if we would all try to better connect with the
people around us.

Photo Credits: https://unsplash.com/photos/4eZo9vfL1dM
