Baby, this is my contribution to the world. My contribution to you. When I was
taking a bath, I was crying all the time, and it was great. Tears can be good
things. The reason for my tears was all this energy inside of me. Energy that is
always inside of me. Energy that you are giving me. Energy of the opportunity we
have during our lifetime. The energy you are experiencing when you do great
things. We both are a strong team since over a year now. This team can do great
things together, which we cannot even imagine. Here I want to thank you for all
of what you are to me. For what you do to me. For the energy you create. All the
people out there have no idea what favour you do to all of them. And at the same
time, we do not have an idea about what other people are doing for us. This is
my contribution. A stronger together. This spirit. The idea about us. Not only
us both, but all of us. Even those who do not agree with us or our lives. This
is about all of us and we should be ashamed to die without having any impact on
mankind. You cannot do everything, but you can do almost anything. Step up for
what is important to you. Always hold the line. Step up for yourself. I will
stand up for you and I will do anything to help you making your way through
life. One of the important things in life is to embrace mistakes. Struggle is
what makes you thrive. Walk, fall, get up, repeat. You have to show up baby. I
have seen you showing up no matter what challenge has been waiting for you. You
made your way up to here, and one day, you may be willing to understand that one
life can be about more than only this one life itself. This is not only about
money. This is not only about your own family. This is about great ideas and
their opportunities that are only waiting to be discovered. I open my eyes. I
open my arms. I open my heart. I am sitting in the bath tube and I cry, because
I realise how much energy is there inside of me. Because, of all the great
opportunities out there. Because of all this energy, inside of you. Use it to
leave your footprint in the sand. Dream big baby. And in the first place, never
ever bother about the "how?". How is not your business in the first place. You
have all the information of humanity available at your disposal. You have all
the possibilities of humanity in reach. Dream big and just fucking do it. The
big "how?" can be sorted out all the time once you move. And I will always be
there to help if you need me. Never stop asking "why?". Never stop dreaming big.
Never stop moving, inside of your mind. You can do anything darling. There will
be times that try to stop you. There will be times that try to make you believe
you cannot move anymore. Prepare for these times now and get your lazy ass up. I
love you baby.
