I got into Children of Time, written by Adrian Tchaikovsky. This sci-fi novel
describes an alternative future universe in which mankind is forced to leave
planet earth, bound to find a new world to prosper. Scientists run experiments
on far away exoplanets in order to make them habitable for new species to arise.
But instead of giving a new lineage of humans a chance to thrive under the
influence of a super-virus, something different starts to evolve and take over
the planet. The last small spaceship harboring all of what's left of mankind
seeks out to claim their new motherworld, which has meanwhile become ruled by
spiders. And the brave crew of humans has soon come to realize that the
challenges ahead are simply insurmountable. The story of this universe is
absolutely fascinating. The author has written characters with a great sense of
humour and I enjoyed the narration of the audiobook quite a lot. What I found so
interesting here is the design of a spider dominated world, with all of its
implications. Spiders do not speak like humans using sound waves. Instead
spiders communicate via vibration that they create and pickup using their eight
legs. The spiders speedrun evolution over centuries using their innate
super-virus infection and soon become the masters of various technologies. The
book takes us on a journey across a civilization of great hierarchy and
structure, including all the yet so human discrepancies of religion and status.
What was so crazy to me was that there does not money exist in this universe
whatsoever. I can't even recall to have heard the word money even once. And so
all of the dynamics throughout this insect civilization is solely defined by
rank and competence. Towards the end of the book we get exposed to certain
philosphical challenges when the human crew onboard their spaceship becomes soon
forced to clash with the spiders under the tyranny of survival, or all will be
lost forever. The end of this story was heartwarmingly cruel. And the summary
here may end with a thought, or a question. Who is to say what is worth living?

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Children-of-Time-Hoerbuch/B07226594W
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adrian_Tchaikovsky
