I got into War and the Art of Governance, written by Nadia Schadlow. This book
discusses various path dependencies for war-ridden territories according to
historic events. The question in war and governance is how to effectively
rebuild a nation after it got destroyed and defeated. War is political in
nature. It is always humans who are affected by it the most. And the outcomes of
any war and its second order effects are always uncertain. The book focusses on
the successes and failures of US American nation state building attempts. The
USA had a lot to show for after world war two. Germany might be one of the best
nation state building experiments the USA has ever conducted. But times have
changed, and the same old ideas applied to a brave new world have not lead to
good results in our modern day and age. The best example of US American nation
state building failures can probably be seen in Afghanistan today. The book is
from 2017, and while many mistakes of US leadership have been addressed, we have
to note here that the Taliban regained control of Afghanistan in August 2021,
forming an Islamic Emirate. The irony here is that the Taliban have been the key
reason to invade and occupy Afghanistan after the 9/11 attacks on the World
Trade center. 20 years after starting the war, too many gave their lives for
American soldiers to now just be gone, and for the Taliban to never have been
more in control. Here are some of the other more interesting take aways in this
book. The sequence of qualities that have to be achieved in order to rebuild a
nation are broadly speaking: order, health and education. It may be just another
dunk on America, but US forces were never able to even achieve order in
Afghanistan. Another interesting dynamic to point out here is the fact that it
matters a great deal who the local populous perceives the invader or victor to
be. The powerful majority of the Afghan population did evidently not appreciate
a western intervention, and so the disrupted system of Afghanistan reverted back
to its own mean. That will be the very same reason why Ukraine will never become
Russian and all we will be left with is scorched earth. The book War and the Art
of Governance is a critical take and well written inspiration for those being
interested in the power dynamics on the geopolitical stage.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/War-and-the-Art-of-Governance-Hoerbuch/B07287C7T8
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nadia_Schadlow
