MEMO W25 JUN 2024

> Try to get the big things right. - [xh3b4sd]

One topic I wanted to discuss for some time now is MEV and the varying
philosophies pursued on Solana and Ethereum respectively. First of all, a
sentence or two about what MEV actually is. MEV originates from the concept of
Miner Extractable Value. Back in the day, Ethereum was running the Proof of Work
consensus mechanism, just like Bitcoin still does today. And because Ethereum is
fundamentally a platform for programmable money, there was always value to be
extracted by miners. This extractable value became infamously known as MEV.
Today, Ethereum is running the Proof of Stake consensus mechanism. And since
there are no miners anymore, MEV became known as Maximal Extractable Value. The
rise of MEV research gave birth to a completely new economical problem domain.
It turns out we can frame any system as adversarial environment and analyse its
mechanism design based on the objective to extract as much value as possible
from said system. It turns out there is MEV everywhere, in sports, in politics,
and onchain. The value being extracted onchain may come from a myriad of
strategies. Most notably liquidations, arbitrage and sandwiching. For our
purpose here we want to differentiate between toxic and non toxic MEV. Non toxic
MEV may occur if some desirable service is provided for a small amount of value
that can be described as a service fee from a user point of view. Toxic MEV on
the other hand is any value taken away from the user, that turns out to be below
the objectively optimal value, that said user should have received, if the given
transaction would have been executed in the most optimal way possible. In other
words, toxic MEV is the delta between what a user should have received, and what
a user did in fact receive. We assume here that society always tries to minimize
toxic MEV. Intentionally, I am not saying "prevent", but "minimize", because MEV
can fundamentally not be prevented. We can think of MEV in terms of the energy
conservation law. MEV does always exist. MEV cannot be destroyed. MEV can only
be converted by mechanism design. Now, Ethereum's philosophy has always been to
minimize the toxic effects of MEV. On a protocol level, MEV is even planned to
be burned in the future. On an application level MEV is tried to be given back
to the user. I think burning MEV on the protocol level and reimbursing MEV on
the application level can effectively be seen as the north star for a desirable
MEV endgame on Ethereum. On the other hand, Solana's philosophy on MEV is
literally marketed publicly as selling point for additional staking rewards.
During the past couple of weeks we have heard that Solana generated more revenue
than Ethereum, because Solana's share of MEV related staking rewards was so big.
Let that sink in for a second. In the spirit of Solana, more money is being made
by validators, because more money is taken away from its users, and the
advertisement is, that that is a good thing. All the while monumental research
efforts are conducted for years and years on end to make sure Ethereum remains a
bastion against centralization risks and user robbery onchain. I am of the
opinion that blockchain networks have a rather short half life, if their
business models depend on providing users with a worse execution price. MEV
shouldn't be a selling point if its toxic effects redirect value from users to
validators. We have to mention that Ethereum validators earn more rewards from
MEV as well today. The difference here is that I have never heard how great this
is for the ecosystem, because it isn't. On a fair note, the Solana Foundation
has recently undelegated large amounts of stake from many validators that have
mainly engaged in toxic MEV. While this is commendable, it says something else
about centralization risks and credible neutrality.

---

Another analogy occurred to me for framing the potential size of Ethereum and
Solana relative to one another. Solana's only selling point over Ethereum is
execution speed. In particular this refers to Solana's short blocktimes, where
each slot is set to 400 milliseconds. Now imagine you try to compete against
Google by delivering search results faster. Google is known to have the best
answers for virtually everything and most users value quality and breadth over
split second improvements. Solana is effectively saying that it is better at
everything by being faster at something. Being very specialized may has its
merits, but solving a niche problem in a broader problem domain is frankly not
how you conquer the majority of the market. As discussed in the last Powerlaw
memo, Solana and Ethereum each cater to their respective use cases. Though my
understanding of the matter is that Solana goes after a smaller pie. That is not
to say that this particular pie will be small in itself. It simply means that
the spectrum of qualities that each individual ecosystem can capture should be
considerably different in size. The target ballpark ratio in smart contract
blockchain market share between Solana and Ethereum is in my mind in the order
of 1:10 for the reasons explained above. Now, I might be wrong here in two
different ways. First, Solana may cure cancer and takes over the world. In that
instance I would be proven wrong entirely. Second, I may got the direction
right, but got the magnitude wrong. It may turn out that the market share ratio
between Solana and Ethereum is rather 1:100. This "failure" scenario would still
be ok for somebody who is not long Solana while waiting for the directional
trade to play out. I am in that camp today and am happy to be wrong like that
eventually. To be fair, I do not expect a two orders of magnitude difference in
relative ratio. It feels too much of a difference for what Solana has to offer.
I would be curious to hear how you, dear reader, frame this problem and what
market share ratio either ecosystem should obtain long term. Feel free to reach
out and let me know about your thought process!

---

One interesting data point I saw recently from Tokenterminal was about the
average trade size on CoWSwap and Uniswap respectively. Without taking 24 hour
volumes into account here, the average trade size on CowSwap is around 60,000
USD while it is about 1,000 USD on Uniswap. That is a 60x difference. I am not
sure right now what to make of it, but I found the stark difference to be
fascinating. And some more numbers come from VanEck this week. Their model for
evaluating Ethereum expresses a bear case, a base case and a bull case for the
price of ETH in the year 2030. The predicted ETH prices for each case are 360
USD, 22,000 USD and 154,000 USD respectively. The VanEck model has all kinds of
inputs and makes all kinds of assumptions. Let's face it. All models are wrong.
Some may be useful, but they are still wrong. But first, a good word. It is
great to see financial institutions put in the work in order to sell their
exchange traded products. VanEck tries to frame Ethereum's financials in
traditional ways so that their clients can understand this new asset class. What
I find rather less helpful is the width of the predicted outcomes. We are
basically saying that ETH may trade between zero and infinity in 2030. I would
not know what to do with that if I were a VanEck client. In any event, I think
VanEck's base case of 22,000 USD per ETH in 2030 is around the right ballpark
based on my current understanding of liquidity cycles and growth trajectories
ahead. Somebody's gotta say it. Higher for longer!

---

At last, I would like to invite anyone of my readers to reach out, if there are
any questions or ideas for collaboration. I want to write about your startup,
strategic execution and elegant mental models. My brand archetypes are sage,
outlaw, magician and creator. If you would like me on your cap table as an angel
investor, then feel free to send your pitch my way. If you would like my
feedback or engage in an interesting conversation, then I am happy to chat or
have a nice dinner over some sweet red wine. If you are a writer yourself, then
I would love to talk about the art of writing and maybe get your feedback on my
writings here. If you think we should work on something cool together, then
please reach out and let's be friends.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001301
