MEMO W49 DEC 2024

> There is a dis-ease in every government making people believe that more money
> fixes any problem. And nothing could be further from the truth. - [xh3b4sd]

Families, tribes and states are the three main collective structures in which
humans organize as social groups. I was wondering how to formulate those
relationships and found it interesting that the concept of the family and the
concept of the tribe are evolutionary ingredients to the well being of many
different forms of social animals. There is a very strong case to be made for
the biological component of the family and the tribe as a tool for survival. We
as humans separated from the animal kingdom in many important ways. And if I had
to summarize those differences conceptually, then I think the essence that sets
us apart from other animals is the ability and the extend of abstraction in our
thinking. Our minds evolved to formulate generic mental models, which in turn
allowed us to transfer domain specific knowledge from one problem domain to
another. Abstraction allowed us to communicate via language. It allowed us to
invent property rights and money. And abstraction allowed us to not only conquer
this planet, but soon will also allow us to explore other planets out there in
the dark. Where is the powerlaw you may ask, dear reader? It is right in front
of your eyes, because when you read this Powerlaw memo, then you will read it on
a display of some digital device. And just as we discussed religion as
coordination technology in the last Powerlaw memo, we look at nation states
today as the natural abstract progression of ordinary tribes amidst the animal
kingdom. Our ability to abstract, allowed us to plan, to reach for power and to
hold onto it by wit, stick and ruse. And what all the fuzz was all about?
Property rights. The "right" to own treasures and women and land. Often the
right to Right itself, whether that was right or wrong. The nation state was a
logical conclusion of an evolutionary process that gave power to those who could
will the future into existence, by abstraction. The future did always belong to
those who were able to imagine a tomorrow far greater than the lines of their
horizons. And those who thought that the nation state was the final piece of the
puzzle will rather sooner than later learn to which extend our coordination
technologies reach the next evolutionary stage. We are going from physical power
structures to digital hyper structures. We are going from nation states to
network states. And contrary to popular believe, I do not think that network
states have to occupy one, or even any geographic territory. Just like there is
no fire in the lightbulb, there is no land in the network state. And yet, the
lightbulb creates light, and the network state secures property rights. Just
like we went from arrows to bullets, and from horses to cars, we are going to go
from states to networks. From something that can be locally targeted, so
something that is everywhere and nowhere at the same time. And nobody today can
fathom what that actually means. What I would wish to the world is the trustless
execution of property rights for all mankind, free from the arbitrary judgement
of compromised middlemen. What I would wish to the world, are hyper structures
freeing us from bloated governments that have long forgotten what their actual
mandate looks like. For the people.

---

The difference between the National Weather Service and the Internal Revenue
Service is that one of these institutions helps people every day and the other
gets in the way on a regular basis. The mandate of any government ought to be
"for the people". And it seems to me that having an institution for providing
weather forecasts and weather warnings is a wildly useful concept. Everyone uses
weather reports all the time and nobody is complaining about them. Nobody is out
there on social media parroting conspiracy theories about the rogue scientists
at the National Weather Service. Might there be something in the bushes? Maybe.
Could it be better somehow? Yes, always. Just compared in the grander scheme of
things, it appears like nothing of relevance and livelihood goes horribly awry
in the realm of weather forecasting on an institutional level today. So what is
the difference between the National Weather Service and the Internal Revenue
Service? Well, the National Weather Service is unanimously useful, while the
Internal Revenue Service annoys people. Maybe one way to look at it is that one
gives and the other takes away. I want to clearly state that I always thought
paying taxes is useful and necessary. I am not against paying taxes. I am
against a rotten system that drains the life out of its citizens for no reason
whatsoever. I am against the abuse of power, which happens inside the IRS and on
the side of tax payers alike. And we can see that all the time when the system
gets exploited through legal loop holes in the most obscure ways, so obscure
that only psychopaths would choose to spend a lifetime dealing with this mess.
Psychopaths, enabled by notoriously psychopathic systems. And one day, those
rotten pieces will upend the entire system all together, if we are not careful.
I cannot really quantify the amount of resources that nation states waste away
by trying to collect legitimate tax burdens. We have no idea how much joy and
how much lifetime certain institutions drain out of us every day and every year.
Just when I see once more that the government employed another 80,000 human
beings only to collect taxes within a vastly automated world, then it looks to
me as if the whole thing is already coming apart. As of Q4 2024 there are
roughly 25 million people employed by the government of the United States, which
is about 7.5% of the entire US population. Why on earth would you want to bloat
the government even further, and why on earth would you want to expose human
beings to soul crushing occupations, if we could simply automate the task of tax
collection and allow those human resources to roam free in the world instead? I
tell you why. Because of complacency and utter incompetence. Those are skill
issues, on a national level. I have a sense that there are rather simple
alternatives to some of our current problems. Alternatives that would actually
make life better for basically everyone on this planet, while being orders of
magnitude more efficient and easy to implement at the same time. The simplest
thing that we can do from here on out would be to delete the entire tax code and
apply a flat tax for everything that enters your bank account. We could say that
the bank account is an inalienable public good and force all purchases above a
certain threshold through those digital pipelines. And with those digital
pipelines we could still decentralize banking infrastructure on top of
blockchain networks, and do away with all the madness in the background of
today's private business banking.

---

About 200,000 USD in rent has been paid to Ethereum L1 every day over the past
week by all L2 rollups. That rent is mainly paid for data availability, coming
in the shapes of blobs and calldata. I wanted to mention the amount of rent paid
here because that value quadrupled now based on the average amount of rent paid
over the past couple of months. "Rent Paid" as a concept is important for public
blockchains because it will become the only metric that actually matters.
Because Rent Paid describes exactly how much the free market is willing to pay
for premium block space at any given moment in time. Today I can already say
with confidence that Ethereum is scaling and that the rollup centric roadmap is
working, while the entire ecosystem is firing on all cylinders. Nobody is paying
attention to the network effects of the Ethereum ecosystem today and nobody
understands the monumental shifts ahead of us that trustless property rights are
going to bring to the world. We have truly be given the opportunity of a
lifetime here, while history is being made in front of our eyes. Every. Single.
Day. And then, in other news, all ETH ETFs had net inflows of about 700 million
USD this past week, which is also greatly reflected in the ETH price action
these days. Just bull market things.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001289
