MEMO W27 JUL 2024

> MEV is everywhere. And when you do not recognize that, you will not survive
> the dark forest. - [xh3b4sd]

Many continue to express concerns how crypto as an industry has no use cases.
And I keep saying that this is not true. What seems to be the case is that
people who say that crypto has no use cases are simply not using the available
use cases themselves. The major use case that this industry provides today are
stablecoins, which are primarily demanded in jurisdictions with rather bad fiat
money. As mentioned in the past Powerlaw memos, those jurisdictions mainly
include Turkey and countries in south America like Argentina. We could say that
another use case for crypto that continues to grow in relevance are prediction
markets. Polymarket generated over 100 million USD in monthly trading volume
during the month of June 2024, and all of it is fundamentally secured by
Ethereum. I have been using Polymarket myself for a while now for two main
reasons. One reason is to see how prediction markets value certain future
outcomes in the real world. Those outcomes today are mostly of political nature.
And the other reason for me to use Polymarket is to express my own believe about
future outcomes. Placing bets on Polymarket has given me some insights in how
those market dynamics work and what to pay attention to when participating in
prediction markets. It all starts with a reasonable belief that a person has to
hold. According to that belief, the challenge is to find the right market in
order to express that belief in value terms. Most important here are the
conditions under which any prediction market is trading and under which
conditions the markets in question resolve eventually. We could say we are still
early, because figuring out what a prediction market is fundamentally about is
not always straight forward. I had to learn that the titles under which
prediction markets on Polymarket are listed have rather no meaning towards the
conditions of resolving any market, because market titles may simply change any
time. What really matters are the underlying conditions that a market defines,
and those conditions may or may not be ambiguous or complete. One of my first
mistakes that I made when betting on Polymarket was to place bets based on
market titles. Placing my bets and then reading the fine print of the market
conditions gave me a rather rude awakening, because what the market title
expressed was not at all what the actual market conditions described. One
question that I try to ask myself now on every bet I take is this. Until when
has the future outcome to happen that I believe in here? All markets have
deadlines and drawing conclusions on deadlines for yourself without consulting
the stated market conditions is the perfect recipe to lose it all. Another
ambiguous example we can think about is pretty common in sports. For instance, a
prediction market asks the question which team scores the first goal in some
particular match. And what then happens in the real world is that the team you
were betting on put the ball into the goal, but the goal was subsequently
invalidated by the referee for some obscure rule of that game. Your team made
the goal, but the score did not count officially. How should such a market be
resolved? Maybe the challenge with any prediction market is to define the
question and its conditions in the most unambiguous ways possible. Though that
is a very challenging task. Such a subjective process does always try to
approach the error rate of zero, but it will never fully get there. In plain
English that means one thing. Mistakes will be made. And so it turns out that
many skills are required in order to successfully participate in prediction
markets. You have to have a reasonable belief. You have to have a well rounded
understanding of the area, field or industry that you are betting on. You have
to fully understand the market conditions under which said market eventually
resolves. You have to have the ability to identify the logical delta between the
market's conditions and the possible action space within its area, field or
industry in question. And you have to be aware of the ever changing environment
in which the market's conditions play out. Because, it seems like one of the
optimal strategies in prediction markets is full of MEV. Many bets try to merely
shave off basis points from ongoing prediction markets without much conviction
whatsoever. In practice that looks like this. Somebody enters a market and
places a limit order immediately for exiting the market with a little bit of
profit. This stinky bid strategy is successful because of the inherent
volatility of anything happening in the real world. And I think that volatility
is especially prevalent across politics and sports. The downside of the stinky
bid strategy is that you need to play as many markets as you possibly can while
understanding the statistical significants of any market that you enter. And
especially in those early days, I think there might not always be enough markets
to bet on. And if there are, you just found yourself another full time job.

---

The Supreme Court of the United States has just overturned what has been known
as the Chevron doctrine. Over the past 40 years we have seen federal agencies
claim power to interpret the law by themselves under the guidance of Chevron.
Many democracies end up with ever powerful administrative states, run by
unelected officials who may or may not have an agenda, and who may or may not be
fit for the job. In a perfect world of competent administrators all would be
good and well. Though we are not living quite in a perfect world, and the result
over the past 40 years has been that society was ruled by unelected officials
inside of the administrative state expressing their own opinions and agendas.
Not that everything has been bad. By no means! But the result of the Chevron
doctrine has stiffled whole industries like nuclear power and blockchain
networks in the USA without any recourse. Moving forward we should hope to see
less authority in unreasonable decision making across three letter agencies, and
instead see more authority in decision making based on the law of the land. And
since the law of the land is not always clear, we can expect, or better, we
should hope to see more legislation from congress. Because congress is elected
by the people. And because making laws for the people is the job of congress.

---

Marc Andreessen recently told his story of how the internet happened. And I
couldn't but notice all the stark parallels to the early days of the crypto
industry today. Networks of networks see exponential adoption in what seems to
be a niche use case at first. The old world collides with the new world and the
incumbents of the old world do not understand what the new world has to offer
nor why you would even need any of it anyway. Established professionals predict
the demise of the new world while being proven wrong over and over again. And
even after 20 years of technological progress and cultural relevance we are
going to see many people wondering how any of the blockchain networks are useful
after all. If you take away anything from here, then let it be this. The world
will always become more digital and we will always be looking for ways to
improve how the systems work that we use to govern our societies. We know these
things to always be true. And even if the road ahead is rocky, and even if
blockchain networks appear to be a negligible beast of a foreign land,
blockchain networks will only increase in relevance and value for how society
and the world economy is fundamentally run.

---

The number of L2 rollups keeps growing and we are now seeing 140 of active and
upcoming projects in the L2 rollup category. Many think that there are too many
of those rollups, and while that appears to be true on the surface today, I
think the path forward will be paved with app specific rollups of which we
should see thousands over the coming years. On the list of networks processing
the most transactions per second, Ethereum mainnet was pushed to spot 7 the
first time ever, which means that for the first time 6 L2s and L3s are
processing more economic activity than Ethereum mainnet itself. The conclusion
of this convoluted word salat is simply this. Usage of blockchain networks
across the Ethereum ecosystem is close to all time highs. All scaling and usage
metrics are up into the right, which essentially means that Ethereum is
relevant, and that Ethereum is scaling.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2021/0001070
