MEMO W37 SEP 2024

> What matters in this world is not truth, but trust. - [xh3b4sd]

We have come a long way on this planet, our earth. And ever since we look up to
the stars, we wonder, what it is that truly matters in this life. The human mind
created the second realm, which we call imagination. An alternative reality that
we can choose to believe in. The human mind is what fabricates everyone's very
subjective social reality. And along those lines of thought, it wasn't
necessarily truth that humans optimized for ever since, but something more
meaningful to people. This meaning can effectively be described as consensus.
And within consensus we found loyalty. Loyalty in turn is trust. The kind of
trust you can lean on, hard. So the essential resource in everyone's social
reality is not truth, but trust, because trust is what determines how much I can
rely on you. This is also why history is only written by the victors. And it is
up to each and every generation to find consensus on its mutually desirable
integrity. One question we can ask is this. Why would anyone trust someone else
with their life? Or expressed differently. Everyone has a hill that they are
willing to die on. This is why we are doing the wrong thing for the right
reason. This is why we are doing the right thing for the wrong reason. And this
is why we go and become greater than the things that hurt us along the way.
Today we are living through the information age, and with it through the age of
trust, and the struggle thereof. The struggle for consensus is inherent to our
governance structures that we, in the west, call democracies. And every so often
we come together in order to cast a vote, which, every so often, becomes null
and void for this or that reason. We then hear that votes get blocked, lost,
unaccounted for, or maybe even counted twice. Citizens of democracies place a
very high degree of trust in those authorities that ought to guarantee a
truthful election. And along those very blurry lines of assumptions, and along
this very brittle chain of custody, the fate of a nation may be decided by a few
after all. I am not an election truther. I am not writing this to proclaim that
the election was or will be stolen. What I want to do here is to take a step
back and look at our world, over time, and explain how history is made in front
of our own eyes. Across history, there is a tendency of technological
confluence. The development of technologies that aim to balance each other out.
When we learned to use fire, we did also learn to use water in order to tame the
fire. When we learned to wield a sword, we did also learn to hold a shield in
order to protect against the sword. When we learned to digitize information, we
did also learn to encrypt it in order to protect our privacy. And I think when
we will learn to put the ghost into the machine, then we will also learn to
coexist. What I am getting at is that the information age requires information
systems which in turn allow society to upgrade and function better than it has
ever before. My hope is that rather sooner than later, we will for instance
start to conduct nation state elections using zero knowledge proofs on public
blockchain networks. This would make voting transparent and verifiable, while
maintaining individual privacy. One technological reason for why this has not
happened yet is the rather difficult problem of private key management. For
decades now the cypher punks have dreamed of a world in which every single
person owns and operates their own private key for all sorts of fancy
applications. In today's world it is still too hard to own, operate and backup
cryptographic private keys. So much so that the least sophisticated and most
vulnerable of society cannot be expected just yet to overcome this still very
technical burden. I think one day we will get there. And I hope that we will get
there rather sooner than later. And when we get there, I hope it will happen on
a public blockchain that is as available, as reliable and as decentralized as
our favourite Layer 1 blockchain network. In one word. Ethereum.

---

I saw a Cast on Farcaster the other day asking the following question. What
evidence is there that non-crypto native organizations are actually coming
onchain? This is a question of crypto adoption outside of our industry. Let's
ignore centralized exchanges like Coinbase that started as offchain businesses
and become more and more onchain over time. Let's ignore PayPal that created its
own onchain stablecoin. Let's ignore the various NFT collections that Disney and
Starbucks created for fan and loyalty products. And let's ignore that the
question of who comes onchain is probably the wrong question. More on that in a
moment. For now, let's look at Sony and BlackRock. Sony announced its own L2
rollup on top of Ethereum called Soneium. In the current context Sony is a
non-crypto native organization bringing their various products and payment
settlement needs onchain. I am not a gamer, so forgive me if this sounds dumb or
even slightly off. But, I can imagine a world in which every PlayStation related
purchase is settled on Soneium. And as far as I know, Sony is also going to
issue their own stablecoin, for exactly those payment settlement needs. So that
is one. Let's then look at BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager with
roughly 10 trillion USD in assets under management. BlackRock launched the BUIDL
fund onchain, on Ethereum L1. The BUIDL fund is a financial product for
tokenized treasury bills. Products like these are similar to money market funds,
where people can park their cash in order to receive a higher interest payment
on their deposit. Those kinds of products are attractive during high interest
rate regimes, because people can get more money for their money instead of
losing cash to inflation, if it were only sitting in a bank account otherwise.
Now, why would we want those kinds of financial products to be onchain? Simply
because everything onchain is transparently available 24/7, and because
everything onchain can be DeFi composable. Writing down all of this makes me
realize again how the world is split into two kinds of people. The more and the
less sophisticated players. And I am starting to think that crypto will be
adopted one sophisticated player at a time, until the future has finally arrived
for everyone without having to realize what crypto is or even does in the
background. And that brings me to the point that the original question of who is
coming onchain might simply be the wrong question to ask. That question might be
the equivalent of asking who is even coming online back then when it was 1993.
Back in those days some tried to come online. But most either couldn't, or
shouldn't come online, because of something that is akin to the innovator's
dilemma. Any successful business that could have come online would have had to
make the difficult decision of sacrificing a lucrative business model that did
already work, for one that bears many unknown unknowns. And that kind of risk
caused most businesses to stay where they were at the time. Some adopted, sure.
Which took decades. And some got competed away, by some of which, at this point
back then, nobody has even heard of just yet. And here we come back full circle.
Because the times of today are the times of mainframes. The times of today are
the times of the protocol wars. The times of today are the times of being online
for the first time, using a modem that sounds funny. The Magnificent Seven of
crypto may not have been founded just yet. And that means we are still so so
early on this journey, and that being curious and gritty may very well pay out
handsomely one day in the not so distant future. Until then, be curious, dear
reader.

---

10 billion USD is our number for this week. This is the amount of stablecoin TVL
across all of the L2 rollup ecosystem, to date. This number is a significant
milestone for the adoption of stablecoins and crypto at large. And this number
is also significant to legitimize Ethereum's rollup centric roadmap. Because it
is really playing out in front of our eyes in real time. I myself am building an
onchain application that will use stablecoins, and that I plan to deploy to some
L2 rollup. And that L2 rollup may or may not be associated with a company that
rhymes to Koinbase. So, more from that front soon! Until then, stay gritty!

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001326
