MEMO W44 NOV 2024

> Layers of defence and layers of conviction. Find asymmetry and understand your
> target inside out. This is how you exploit systemic upside. - [xh3b4sd]

"America's Class Politics Have Turned Upside Down", "The Worst of Crypto Is Yet
to Come", "A Bogus New Rationale for Trump's Economic Agenda", "The Most
Opinionated Man in America", these are the headlines everyday people are
confronted with when reading The Atlantic today, one of America's most renowned
newspapers. Long gone are the days in which we found balanced fact based news in
those traditional media outlets. What you and me are bombarded with today is
rarely rooted in facts. Traditional media seems rarely balanced. It never seems
optimistic or hopeful, and it definitely never appears to be inspiring. If you
wonder why everyone is angry all the time, then there you have it. Because
people are still watching the "news". We have talked a lot about the
individual's responsibility to properly curate one's media diet here in the
Powerlaw memo. As always, garbage in, garbage out. Manifestation is a real
thing, and thus thy shall become thy words. Looking at the opinionated headlines
above, it is no wonder that half of us are on anxiety medication. We need to be
competent in this world. Not only competent for others, but first and foremost
competent for ourselves. If we as individuals are not able to properly and
sustainably navigate this world, then life becomes miserable. I know that
manifesting works because I practiced it myself for years on a daily basis. The
term that I prefer to use though is "priming". You can prime yourself through
journaling and other means of thinking. You can simply write down your own
thoughts and refine what you write over and over again, over long periods of
time. For instance, write down a single thought today, and be it a single
sentence. That is very simple. Basically everyone can do that. It does not
matter what you think or write down, the important part is simply that you do
it. So go ahead, and write it down, today. Whatever it may be. Then, tomorrow,
do it again. Write down one thing that you have in mind. It might be something
that you are ruminating about, it might be something you just want to get off
your chest. It might be something that you have heard, or something that you
strongly believe in. It does not matter what you write down in the beginning.
The important part here is that you just write. Priming yourself that way
happens then over longer periods of time if you just keep writing. Eventually
you will come back to what you have written. And looking back at your past
writings you will encounter different sets of emotional reactions. My own
reactions on my own past writings unfold on a distribution that goes all the way
from "I am actually a genius" to "this is so so bad, why am I such an idiot".
What this entire process of priming does for you is the following. You start
thinking, and even more important, you start thinking for yourself. There is no
"journalist" force-feeding dictated narratives. There is no Twitter timeline or
family members that trick you into believing some very specific thing. When you
prime yourself, then this very act of writing is the pure process of thinking
for yourself. And that is a competence that nobody is taught in school. Why I am
telling you, dear reader, all of this? Because markets are ruthless. This life
is fundamentally ruthless. And in fact, nobody in the government or social media
gives a shit about you and your family. It doesn't matter what you believe in.
It doesn't matter on which side of the aisle you are comfortably seated. It does
not matter how you vote. Nobody gives a fuck about you when push comes to shove.
And so, all that you can rely upon on this life, is your level of training that
you fall back to, if life gets really rough. Your level of training is the
competence that opens doors, and that allows others to trust you. Because with
competence, you become a person.

---

I was riffing on this idea last night with people at Crypto Drinks in Amsterdam.
Sometimes I do rage writing to just get ideas out. A takeaway I had during one
of those rage writing sessions was that truth is not as important to humans as
is consensus. I realized this when I started building [Uvio] information
markets. We don't know what consciousness really is. All that really matters is
my perception of you being conscious. Matter of fact, I couldn't tell the
difference anyway, unless I can. People arguing that there is no ghost in the
machine miss the point. Like, yeah, you may be right. But the point is that this
doesn't matter. Because we are going to make you believe that the ghost inside
of the machine is real, which is when you can't tell the difference anymore
anyway. All of that is a long way of saying that all that matters to people is
their own social reality. Not what is real, but what they think is right. It
doesn't really matter what's real or not as long as I can rely on you as a
person, so that we can go through it together. Stuff that is on public
blockchains can represent objective truth and that is all good and well. More of
that please! But a lot of issues that concern real people in the real world have
no clear black and white answer. Humans live in the shadows of many shades of
gray. That is why I say that on Uvio, truth is irrelevant to the extend that
consensus is simply overwriting it, if there is a good reason for it. And
somehow this notion blows peoples' minds and out of a sudden eyebrows get raised
and a lot of words get shouted at me for saying that. The thing is, it is
actually very simple and very close to nature. If you care, and if you are
right, then consensus will be formed. If something gets exploited maliciously,
and nobody cared, then the exploit was maybe rather meaningless in the first
place. No harm no foul? And here is the upside, if people do care about a Claim
on Uvio then consensus will be reached, intersubjectively. No matter what. A lot
of the fancy technicalities are meaningless when social groups have to make
progress. We can't make everyone happy. Stop trying. Overall I think information
markets like Uvio has implemented them are not new at all and it's no rocket
science either. I think so far people have simply not used solutions like Uvio
proposes in governance and other domains where decision making is important.
Meanwhile every other DeFi protocol keeps brewing their own rotten governance
architecture. And we end up with low participation snowflaky systems all around.
If you want to learn more about information markets and if you think Polymarket
doesn't predict anything after all, then try Uvio.

---

While Crypto Twitter is hating on the Ethereum roadmap, founders and engineers
of many L2 rollups came together this past week in order to talk about the
vision of one unified Ethereum. The problem we are talking about today is the
user experience of many segregated L2 rollups that are not particularly good at
moving assets between those different chains. This missing piece of
interoperability between L2 rollups is a key challenge for Ethereum's future.
First of all, people shouldn't even have to know anything about any chain when
they use applications that are secured by Ethereum. Users should always have the
option to take back control in good old self custody fashion and do everything
manually without any centralized middleman. In any event, the default for most
people should rather be that decentralized applications "just work" without any
prior knowledge of blockchain networks. Ultimately, the L2 rollup experience
today competes with all the integrated L1 experiences elsewhere. And to that
end, there are going to be more events and meetups over the next couple of weeks
in order to develop interoperability standards for a singular Ethereum user
experience. It should be easy for new L2 rollups to launch and integrate with
other establish L2 rollups. That helps not only the onboarding of new L2
rollups, but also helps the onboarding of new users onchain in general.
Achieving the final result with all of its perfectly balanced tradeoffs will
take years to implement and rollout. In the end though, I am convinced, we will
allow crosschain functionality without compromising trust assumptions and asset
security. Eventually all of the required technological progress will depend on
having fast and cheap validity proofs, which will all be based on zero-knowledge
cryptography. The long term endgame of interoperability is ZK. Always has been.

---

I want to say that my number for this week is 4, and that is not meant to be an
insider joke. 4 is the number of days, at the time of writing, that we have been
operating at blob count target. Now, normal people will read this, and they will
not understand what this even means. So let's explain. Blobs are the separate
fee market that L2 rollups use to post their state to Ethereum L1. Blobs are
part of the magic that we use to scale Ethereum. The blob count target is the
amount of free blobs that every block can contain before blob space has to be
paid for by L2 rollups. Hitting the blob count target means that L2 rollups are
in high demand, which in turn means that Ethereum security is in high demand,
which is effectively helping to price Ethereum's security, and thus ETH the
asset appropriately, all the while we scale Ethereum. The bottom line here is
this. We will use all the blobs, then we will create even more blobs, and then
we will use those too. And eventually, Ethereum becomes ever more valuable
because this ecosystem has real economic activity, and it is growing.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2021/0001080
[Uvio]: https://testnet.uvio.network
