MEMO W11 MAR 2024

> Meaning is everywhere. Only because you do not see it, does not mean it is not
> there. - [xh3b4sd]

In crypto twitter there has been this idea of financial nihilism because so many
people gamble on meme coins now. The argument is that those gambling people
refuse the rules of the old system, because there is no hope for them to ever
"make it". The charitable interpretation of the meme coin mania would now be
this. When we are gambling we are doing something entrepreneurial in search for
financial freedom. This is a creative process. And I would say that creative
processes cannot be nihilistic. Because, as we learned from Fathers and Sons,
nihilism was finally destroyed by something that created an emotional reaction.
And that is exactly what memes do. They create emotional reactions. Why does any
of this matter now? The systems of our day and age are insufficient for the
many, and we can therefore conclude that people will allways want to gamble in
search for financial freedom. And that in turn means for us that there will
always be opportunities. As we pointed out in the last Powerlaw memo, the next
meme will come.

---

We heard less optimistic opinions about the ETH ETF approvals. For obscure
reasons there is a political will to prevent further token ETFs. The ETF experts
announced publicly that their projected odds are now around 35% for an ETH ETF
approval until end of May. Polymarket states a 27% chance for the approval by
end of May, but that market does only have 2 million USD in liquidity. I could
see the market to be too small and too skewed for reliably predicting anything.
What we do know to be true is this. The SEC is in a real predicament here. If
the ETH ETF gets denied then the decision will be made in the court of law
anyway and that decision would most likely be in favour of an ETH ETF approval.
The question here is not if the ETH ETF gets approved, but when the approval
will be made. This will be all fine and well in time. On the upside, I found ETH
to be holding up quite well compared to BTC, given that BTC got all the massive
ETF inflows, while ETH gets shunned by the crypto degens, because of muh Solana.

---

This week the Dencun upgrade happend in Ethereum land. Most notably we
introduced a new fee market for blob space. That new fee market enables L2
rollups to post data on L1 mainnet in a more efficient way, so that economic
activity on L2s can be cheaper. Blob space is separate from blockspace. L2
rollups opting into the new fee market do not have to compete for the highly
demanded blockspace anymore. And so L2 transactions are not as expensive
anymore. What the Ethereum developers are now starting to work on are all the
prerequisites for statelessness and light clients. This will then be super
exciting because validators will be able to operate without massive storage
requirements, and that will make solo staking so much easier.

---

Towards the end of the week we experienced a market wide repricing of some 10%.
Funny enough in last week's Powerlaw memo we said this time is different. So how
do we reconcile the current situation with our outlook on the future? To me the
repricing this week felt very forced and artificial. Price inflation of goods
and services remains relatively high and seems to creep up again. Maybe the
market had to price in changing rate cut expectations from the federal reserve.
Maybe it was the exhaustion of an "everything pumps market" that had to calm
down eventually. We don't know and we could not have known. What we do know is
this. BTC is getting the infinite ETF bid. Global liquidity is still rising and
it is expected to further rise massively. And we do know that this has dramatic
implications for risk assets in general. We do know that this is still an
election year and we do know that this cycle is only half way through. Higher
for longer!

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2019/0000212
