MEMO W52 DEC 2024

> And after all, the real fortune is to have yourself under control. - [xh3b4sd]

The Powerlaw memo is all about mental models, in particular about how to think.
And one of my favourite takeaways this year is the difference between inputs and
outputs of complex systems. W38 described how easy it is to mistake inputs for
outputs, and in the process get the understanding of any system completely
backwards. I find this notion of inputs and outputs so compelling because we can
describe literally any complex system as a black box that consumes inputs on one
end, and produces outputs as a result. The nature of that concept is for
outputs to change when the inputs start to differ. And that directional
dependency may explain a lot about the intricacies of whatever is happening
inside that black box, that very complex system. In other words, when you ask
the wrong question, you get to the wrong answer. Flipping it on its head,
suppose you found the right answer, you must have asked at least one right
question, otherwise you could not have made the right conclusion. Ask yourself
what was here first, the forest, or the creek?

---

The future of mankind has always been about technology. There is an interesting
question to be asked about life in the universe. When we look for alien
civilizations we are not looking for traces of life. We are looking for traces
of technology. I don't know if we are still going to be here in a thousand, less
a million years from now. In any event, it looks to me like humans are on a
trajectory to become the tools that they build. W07 talked a lot about the
rather weird fact how it can possibly be that two arguably interdependent
technologies get invented at the same time. Imagine a civilization discovers
only one of two extraordinarily powerful technologies. The discovered technology
may increase the chances of that civilization's extinction, without its
balancing counterpart. Imagine that very problem to be one of the great filters
according to Fermi's paradox. The two technologies that we invented now at the
same time are blockchain networks and machine learning. And I am quite convinced
that public blockchains have to become the agentic substrate of artificial
intelligence, if anyone wants to embed it into the digital economy for
productivity increases. And if we could take away only one thing from this year
of Powerlaw memos, than it would be that the future will always become more
technologically advanced, which in our generations today means more digital.

---

This year revealed to us that everyone is trying to build Ethereum. People are
running Bitcoin sidechains and tell you those are L2 rollups. People are working
on L2 rollups on top of Solana and call them network extensions. Celestia set
out to build a rollup centric ecosystem from the start, but the only semi
successful product they have going over there is data availability, which in
itself is not really valuable without some kind of moat around economic
security. Well, and there is Ethereum building Ethereum. And when you get the
chance to bet on one thing, why not the original? W26 discussed how everyone is
building a worse version of Ethereum. Trying to replicate what somebody else is
good at, is not at all bullish for that replica. Public blockchains must be
decentralized, permissionless, censorship resistant and credibly neutral. And
that means, any system that aims to build networks of networks must have the
technology and security in order to facilitate an economy on top of itself.
Bitcoin does not have the technology. Solana and Celestia do not have the
security. I do not think that blockchains are winner takes all innovations. It
is more likely that we will see our space to culminate and submerge over the
coming years, providing one coherent crosschain user experience. The underlying
economies may follow certain powerlaw distributions, and their tokens may accrue
value more or less successfully. However these crazy experiments may play out,
we will continue to follow along those once in a lifetime opportunities.

---

Earlier this year we predicted another Trump presidency in the United States as
explained in W21, and in W11 we wrote that the ETH ETFs are going to be approved
rather sooner than later. The Powerlaw memo nailed it twice with those
predictions, and the turn of events caught a lot of people off guard. What has
been unfolding towards the end of this year couldn't have been more profound for
the crypto industry at large. The timeline split once when a bullet only
scratched the ear of Donald Trump during his first assassination attempt. Yes,
the first attempt on his life, because there have been at least two documented
cases in which attackers tried to take his life throughout election campaigns.
The timeline split then once more when Trump finally became president elect post
election day. The see change unfolding from here promises the crypto industry to
not be stifled by rogue regulators anymore, for which there existed no logic
reason to begin with whatsoever. Not only are we going to see more crypto
innovation taking hold in the world because of the vibe shift brought forward by
the upcoming administration, but also because of the supreme court overturning
the doctrine of Chevron Deference, reported in W27.

---

W46 discussed the concept of emotional granularity and how to train it. At its
core, emotional granularity is really just about awareness. It is about the
ability to perceive basically any thing, and upon perception being able to
articulate what one observes cognitively. In the issue of W46 we framed a
thought experiment, like a word game, that can be played alone or with others
together. Simply take any thing or concept, and explain it from as many angles
as possible. Doing that you will notice how many different dimensions of
complexity, scope and context open up in front of your inner eye. The ability to
visualize, the ability to articulate, and the knowledge about complex systems is
what we are fundamentally training with emotional granularity. And now, why does
any of this matter? Because, if anything, the world is full of complex systems.
And only if we understand complex systems do we have a tiny little chance to
understand how the future possibly looks like. And I say this. The very best
people in any discipline or industry have a very high emotional granularity in
their respective areas of competence.

---

This year was in parts all about tokenization. We covered this concept in
multiple memos throughout the entire year of 2024. At its core, tokenization is
to represent any asset or thing in the form of an associated token onchain. We
discussed the benefits and motivations of TradFi giants like BlackRock utilizing
tokenization. In W24 I wrote about a prediction that I wanted to make, which
went as far as saying that one day tokenized assets will trade on the TXSE
offchain, while being integrated with onchain property rights on Ethereum
mainnet. All the puzzle pieces that we cover all the time here in the Powerlaw
memo fit perfectly together and based on our understanding of the future it just
makes so much sense for BlackRock to pursue these or similar ventures. Most
notably, Stablecoins were the big winner this year, and it was just recently
when we covered an all time high of over 200 billion USD in issued Stablecoins,
most of which resides on Ethereum L1.

---

The Dencun upgrade activated blobs on the 13th of March as covered in W11. That
hardfork enabled a new fee market for data availability secured by Ethereum L1.
Quickly after the upgrade concluded successfully many L2 rollups switched over
from calldata to blobs, causing their own gas fees to drop up to 98% on average.
The events following the Dencun upgrade brought feelings of joy, confusion and
fear. Fewer fees collected means less cashflow. And to this day we are still in
some form of existential crisis across the entire Ethereum community, because
long held assumptions get challenged when everyone is wondering what makes
blockchains and their tokens valuable. Amidst all those debates we can see how
people think, deceive and lie, sometimes out of ignorance, but more often out of
self interest. We had to learn once more that what you read on Crypto Twitter is
not all there is. And we had to learn once more that this is the dark forest out
there after all. Everyone out there has only the best of you in mind, your
money.

---

Our number this week, the last number for this year, is an all time high of
weekly active addresses across the whole of the L2 ecosystem. That number is
10.6 million according to Grow The Pie data. Onchain metrics are up into the
right all across the crypto industry. And I would say most metrics related to
the rollup centric roadmap are no different. From my point of view our industry
has made so much progress this year alone, it is impossible to cover all of the
technological and cultural developments accurately. I think we are going to keep
winning next year on many different dimensions. So much so that 2025 has the
potential to embed this industry ever deeper into the world economy. Higher for
longer!

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2023/0001235
