MEMO W40 OCT 2024

> People usually do not get the point outside of their own belief system. - [xh3b4sd]

Markets are some of the most powerful concepts in human history. Our ability to
leverage markets has enabled trade and wellbeing on a global scale across the
centuries like we have never seen before. We can get lost amidst the marvellous
progress that we accomplished in aggregate as all of mankind, thinking we have
figured it all out. The thing is, we haven't. There are so many questions left
to answer and there is so much progress yet to be made, to everyone's benefit. I
have spent the past couple of months working on a proof of concept for a new
type of onchain information market called [Uvio], now deployed on Base Sepolia.
The idea behind Uvio is rather simple. I want to surround myself with the most
competent and most honest people in the world. And Uvio can be one way to do
exactly that. Let us play long term games with long term people, I say. On Uvio,
you can say anything you like, but you have to stake some tokens together with
your claim in order to prove your conviction about your expressed belief. You
are effectively staking your reputation in concrete ways with whatever you
believe in, and allow the community to validate or invalidate your believe based
on the community consensus. You may wonder why somebody would want to do this.
And the answer is that most people probably wouldn't. Most people on the
internet today are neither competent nor honest. The few people who would want
to use Uvio may use it to prove what is right and what is wrong. Those few kinds
of characters may want to build a track record of competence for themselves
onchain or monetize their authority in any given field of the economy. It has
now become possible to build information markets using social networks and
cryptography in order to make better decisions collectively. The way this better
decision making is supposed to work is due to the added incentive of potentially
winning money in the case that you end up being right, or losing money if you
end up being wrong in your belief. Whether the user chooses to stake real or
fake money tokens is entirely up to them and in the future it will be possible
to decide who to play with inside of those information markets. There are other
governance like aspects to Uvio that I plan to work on in the future. Go give it
a shot!

---

Apart from introducing Uvio here to the world, I wanted to talk about the
difference between staking and trading. A common theme in the crypto industry is
to take any idea, add a token to it, and allow people to trade shares of that
token in one form or another. I have grown to feel like this crypto reflex of
making everything a trading app will end up being a net negative for the
industry. Because trading is fundamentally a mechanism to exchange one value for
another wherever there is a need for it. And the pendulum in our capital markets
has swung a bit too far in one direction for my taste, since the centralized
systems we have built throughout society created an incentive to trade even if
there is no real need for it. This is not a communist take. I am all for
leveraging the free market as a tool to surface competence and integrity, which
is exactly why I set out to build Uvio now in the first place. At Uvio, our
north star is to surface who is right and who is honest, using information
markets. And one point I wanted to make here is that markets can be useful, even
without trading. Instead of allowing people to trade on Uvio, we allow people to
stake. If you think about how markets can be facilitated, you can see how
different the action space of any given market may be. The way in which those
various mechanisms may differ is based on the rules of their action space. You
can think of those different action spaces as the difference between high
frequency trading, which allocates capital in the orders of milliseconds, and
venture capital, which allocates capital in the order of years. High frequency
trading hasn't brought mankind that much further along the arch of evolution as
far as I can tell. Venture capital has been one of the driving factors of
basically most of the progress of mankind. High frequency trading is the
exchange of value just because value can be extracted. Venture capital, if it
doesn't destroy itself, stakes its own reputation and money on its own believes
over time. At best, the difference between trading and staking is conviction
associated with an idealistic believe in a better future version of this world.
I might be leaning too far out of the window here now, but I think that allowing
your users to trade in your crypto app only to facilitate your actual product is
idiosyncratic, and at the least not net positive. Friend Tech was a glorified
crypto consumer app that allowed users to trade, which in my mind had nothing to
do with the app itself. The core team behind this project earned many millions
in trading fees, while the project itself can be considered dead today.
Polymarket allows users to trade on prediction markets. I think Polymarket as it
stands today is not the last word spoken on how we build products based on
information markets. I think trading on prediction markets introduces more toxic
flow than it helps the product to serve its users, because Polymarket is usually
not predicting anything. The perverted form of trading that is frankly
omnipresent in the crypto industry today has replaced conviction with the desire
to extract value. On the upside though, all of this negative emerging behaviour
could not prevent our industry to grow and flourish in other productive ways.
You just have to realize and understand that there is often a lot of noise
everywhere. We should lean more into staking as an industry and I at least
intend to do exactly that with Uvio.

---

Above I mentioned that Uvio is deployed on Base Sepolia. The name Sepolia
indicates that it is the Base testnet. So we are working with alpha software
here. Testnet or not, there are almost 200 L2 rollups out there today. Whether
or not all of those L2s are useful is a different conversation. I think long
term the notion of a chain might as well be abstracted away for most users. When
you are watching a video on YouTube you have no idea which underlying substrate
is serving you at any moment in time. Some of the YouTube engineers may care a
great deal about that substrate, but we as ordinary app consumers have no notion
of infrastructure beyond the mythical cloud. Onchain will eventually just be
another part of the internet. Today though, there is still arbitrage to be had
when it comes to choosing a chain as an app developer. I chose to start Uvio on
Base because of my belief that Base will become one of the largest L2 rollups
across all of Ethereum. Short of regulatory intervention, Coinbase will
eventually move all of its consumer centric exchange business onto Base and run
everything that it possibly can onchain. Being an L2 and having the largest
crypto exchange in the western world supporting your business couldn't be more
bullish for that particular ecosystem. Base has just now breached its L2 market
share by TVL of over 20% for the first time. Base has plans to support up to 1
giga gas in block space in the future, which will be a 100 times increase of
today's economic capacity. Having said all of that. Base being successful
doesn't have to take away from the success that other L2s may have in their own
right. And despite all of the above, Uvio will be chain agnostic. In fact, when
you login to Uvio with your Farcaster account, you do not have any notion of a
chain, because Uvio provides every user with account abstraction and gas
sponsorship, so that everyone can simply use the app by clicking buttons, and
not be concerned about any of the underlying technical details. And then one
last word about building anything onchain anyway. Why do we as enthusiasts swim
against the current and believe in anything that is trustless and permissionless
and decentralized? What does any of that mean anyway? Using blockchain networks
fundamentally removes middlemen and gatekeepers. And using blockchain networks
allows any form of money to be stored and used onchain without having to rely on
opaque third parties. Building onchain can deliver safer, easier and more
transparent user experiences for anything where its users want to have the
notion of ownership. Whether it is about owning money, profile pictures, privacy
or connections to online friends. What you own onchain today is mathematically
linked to your own private keys and cannot just be taken away from you tomorrow.
All of the above, and frankly way more, is why we are building in this industry
today.

---

At last, there is now 1 billion USD in commodities onchain. Virtually all of it
is facilitated on Ethereum mainnet. Paxos gold is an onchain fund allowing to
trade gold on Uniswap. At the end of the day the property rights of those
commodities are only as strong as the weakest link in their bridge, because
somebody has to hold real gold for your money onchain anyway. So those types of
assets are only IOUs after all, but I am sure there are other administrative
benefits managing this kind of capital onchain. For now it is simply great to
see that commodity TVL is rising on Ethereum mainnet, and to my knowledge not
anywhere else.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2019/0000274
[Uvio]: https://testnet.uvio.network
