MEMO W48 DEC 2024

> Almost all people around you are lying almost all the time. And the more power
> they have the more they have to lie to you. Because if they wouldn't lie to
> you, they couldn't maintain their power. - [xh3b4sd]

Somebody said the other day that religion was once so very important for
basically everyone alive, and that religion as a concept has lost so much of its
influence today. Let's get just one thing out of the way first. More than 80% of
the world's population is still estimated to be religious in one form or
another. That is the vast majority of everyone alive today. A thousand years ago
that nunmber was roughly 100%. Looking at the trends all around the world, it is
true that more and more people, on a relative basis, experience a spiritual
awakening, away from some of those rather ancient traditions. And yet, everybody
keeps holding on to their very own spirituality, which is frankly quite
beautiful and certainly very important for every human to purely exist in the
first place. What I would like to emphasize about religion is the difference
between institutions and belief. Institutions are basically power structures
like any other committee. Governments, Churches and Banks are prime examples of
institutions as we know them today. And since institutions are basically power
structures, they are subject to corruption and thus full of MEV. There is always
a little bit more value to extract if only you bend the rules a little more.
Give it some time and institutions become extractive, a net negative for
society. Belief on the other hand is something uniquely individual that every
person experiences and exercices for themselves, whether they are aware of it or
not. That doesn't mean every belief is net positive for society. It simply means
that the only corruption of belief has to come from within. Within yourself that
is. Others may lead you down the wrong path maliciously, but it is on your own
competence to believe in their flaws, and it is on you to corrupt your own
belief and your own self in the process. Now, why is religion as a topic so
interesting and relevant for us here in the Powerlaw memo? Why was religion so
very important in the old days? And why are those ancient institutions still
very powerful all around the world? Because religion, like money, is
coordination technology. The best way to survive through the bleak midwinter has
always been to stick together. To be united as a group that cares and protects
one another. To that end, humans had to believe in something. Something uniting.
Something, that one too often, took it to extreme ends. And to those ends, power
structures brought us power struggles. The struggles here are solely endured in
order to maintain said power. A form of order that benefits me more than you. I
read a quote the other day that said something to the extend of this. The
essential art of civilization is maintenance. What that essentially means is
that there will always be an inherent struggle to stay alive. You may choose the
struggle, but in one form or another, this very fight must be fought, or else
the natural order of disintegration may take a hold of you. And once it applies
its firm grip around your neck, you are never going to come back from it. The
coordination technologies available to us today have come a long way.
Throughout the millennia we have learned and adapted. Come war, come death, come
famine. And so we came right up to this point, at which the coordination
technologies of today are far superior in some very important provable regards.
We are building systems today that allow us to prove objective truth on top of
blockchain networks. We can unmistakably differentiate between individual
property rights, no Church required. We know exactly how much money you may own
onchain, to which I do not have any legitimate claim. We are building systems
that seemingly maintain themselves, given the appropriate incentives. And in
that way, mechanism design enabled us to build systems that are antifragile,
because the more people engage in the inherent struggle of maintaining those
blockchain networks, those very systems become ever more lindy. This is to the
unsung heroes of our time, the mechanism designers. Believe in something,
Retardio.

---

An extremely important legal development took place this past week in the United
States. For the first time a court ruling has decided that the Tornado Cash
smart contracts on Ethereum are not considered "property", which means that
immutable smart contracts themselves are not subject to legal liability claims.
The effects of such a ruling are going to be profoundly consequential, because
it fosters parts of Ethereum's ethos saying "Code is Law". A piece of software
that cannot be changed and is not owned by anyone is therefore deemed a public
good, meaning anyone may use it within the bounds of the law, without that
public good being subject to the law itself. This is relevant because the
Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control sanctioned several smart contract
addresses in a way that made it simply illegal for those smart contracts to be
used. The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals has now ruled that the Treasury's
Office has overstepped their authority by claiming certain smart contracts to be
illegal. The takeaway for us is basically that writing open source code is not a
crime, and neither is deploying immutable smart contracts that are not owned by
anyone. The legal difference here lies between freedom of speech and what is
being called "conduct". Humans are by law free to express themselves.
Conducting anything illegal though, like being involved in money laundering, may
still be subject to prosecution. Last week's ruling is an incredibly important
milestone for frankly all of mankind, because the legal acknowledgement of
trustless code execution will be one of the most fundamental corner stones that
all future societies are going to be build upon. How much I love the fresh smell
of winning.

---

Ethereum is an N of 1. That means Ethereum is very unique across multiple
dimensions, and it's not even close. One of the many things that set Ethereum
apart is the continued research and development happening around MEV. Not only
did the Ethereum community invent this very field of study, but also does the
Ethereum community continue to lead the way in understanding and mastering the
externalities of MEV. This is not to say that everything is perfect. Far from
it! What we have to acknowledge though is that Ethereum is actively doing
something about MEV, while other ecosystems, most famously Solana, claim MEV to
be a source of revenue and indicator of success for blockchain networks. Well,
that is like saying cocaine is such a wonderful thing for self esteem. The thing
is. It won't be for long. With all of that background, I simply want to say that
BuilderNet was announced to be open for business this past week, which is a
coordination attempt to decentralize Ethereum's block building process in order
to ensure and increase the network's credible neutrality across all layers of
the stack. Under the hood, BuilderNet utilizes Trusted Execution Environments,
which are special purpose computer chips allowing for the verifiable execution
of arbitrary programs. On top of that, execution is confidential. Those privacy
and integrity properties allow for the creation of block-building marketplaces,
that ultimately make for more robust systems that are those very decentralized
and credibly neutral blockchain networks. In one word. Ethereum.

---

Our number for the week is 5%, because blobs and calldata do now account for
about 5% of ETH burn on a weekly basis. That is important because the economic
activity on L2 rollups is accelerating, and in the process, burning more ETH. On
another dimension, 5% is also the marketshare that DyDx has today in Perps
Trading onchain. This is interesting for the combination of the following two
reasons. First, DyDx was once a dApp on an L2 rollup and eventually made the
decision to migrate away from Ethereum in order to run its own Cosmos app chain.
And second, DyDx's Perps Trading market share was far greater than 50% around
the time of its migration. There is probably not one single reason for this
dramatic loss of relative relevance that DyDx has now experienced as an onchain
trading platform. In any event, it gets to show that network effects and
distribution are still the largest powerlaw like forces that matter for any kind
of economic activity. And it gets to show that leaving the Ethereum ecosystem
might be the final nail in the coffin for anyone thinking that the grass is so
much greener on the other side of the fence. Because chances are, it isn't. In
other news, it looks like the ETH ETFs have had net inflows north of 450 million
USD this past week, which is now also reflected in quite some bullish ETH price
action. And I say we are going so much higher!

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2023/0001244
