MEMO W38 SEP 2024

> One of the many fundamental flaws in understanding systems is to confuse
> inputs with outputs. - [xh3b4sd]

Dear diary, it was very surprising to me when I heard several times this week,
that some people started to entertain the idea of exchanging their ETH for BTC.
This is so surprising to me, because it does not make any sense in my head.
Imagine somebody holding ETH ever since it traded around 11 USD, since the very
early days, now allocating more to BTC. And for what reason? What are those
people doing? What made them allocate money to ETH in the first place. And what
makes them now want to reallocate to BTC? To me those kind of stories are a tale
of social media intoxication and survivorship bias. If you spend too much time
on social media, listening to opinions and dangerous half knowledge on the
internet, instead of listening to your own thoughts, then you effectively sign
up to be brain washed in ways that cannot be too healthy. And then,
acknowledging that BTC had a good run up to this point, nobody has a plan for
BTCs future. And nobody seems to be too concerned with that minor detail
anyways. Well well well. I am oddly reminded of the Grasshopper and the Ant. And
guess who the industrious ant is in our analogy. I don't want to spend too much
time on the topic of social media intoxication. The bottom line is, be
productive in your own right and don't get brainwashed on the internet. Or put
differently, try to hear your own thoughts. What I want to further discuss here
is the future of Bitcoin. There are two good things I can say about BTC today.
The first one is this. Bitcoin was and is the pioneer of decentralization and
all of its implications. It challenged the status quo and showed us how we can
use technology to be better tomorrow. And the second point I would like to make
in favour of BTC is this, rather sad argument. Number went up, like, a lot. BTC
had a good run so far. I am not saying that it is over for BTC. My thinking here
is rather that Bitcoin, the network, gets into a more and more challenged
position over time, even if the price chart makes you believe otherwise in some
quarters. The future of BTC is full of structural challenges. And it seems that
almost nobody in its community is concerned with any of the dark clouds, that at
least I can see on the distant horizon. But let's get more concrete then. What
are those dark clouds? The complicated way of explaining the fundamentally most
broken aspect of Bitcoin is its security budget. Another way of framing this
particular issue would be to say that, long term, Bitcoin has no money to run
its own network. One fundamental flaw in how the Bitcoin network functions is
the immense amount of resources that is required in order to mine a block. And
mining a block is the very process that makes a blockchain network secure in the
first place. The irony of it all is that all of this energy required is the very
selling point of Bitcoins security by today's standards. And I think this
conundrum confuses people, like, a lot. If you cannot mine a block, then you can
either not participate or the entire network becomes unusable. And so, making it
ever more and more expensive to mine a block requires ever more and more money
in order to operate the network. Well, the network, that is Bitcoin, is operated
by miners. Those miners are typically very large, at times, very cyclical
businesses. And their entire purpose is to mine BTC so that they can sell it
again. This activity will at some point materialize as an energy leak in the
system, because the implication of higher operational costs is the need for ever
higher revenues. And which business in the history of mankind has ever had the
luxury of continuously generating ever higher revenues? In a way this is the
very definition of a ponzi scheme. And there is a fascinating mental model that,
by definition, is rather unintuitive. The problem with understanding complex
systems is often that people confuse inputs with outputs. Imagine you are
wandering through a forest, and you pass by a little creek. Now ask yourself
what the chances are for that creek to be right here in that forest. That is a
very complicated question to ask now, isn't it? Yes, and it is also the wrong
question to ask. In fact, this question confuses the actual input, the creek,
with the actual output, the forest. The forest isn't just there by some miracle.
And the creek doesn't just randomly appear in the forest. The creek was there
all along, and over time the forest grew around it. Because where there is
water, there can grow trees. Now back to Bitcoin. We have the miners that mine
blocks, which is very expensive. And we have BTC, which is the thing that the
miners sell. People in the Bitcoin community will now argue that BTC has to
increase in price because it becomes more and more expensive to mine it. And
this very statement confuses once again inputs with outputs. The price of BTC
doesn't have to do anything. The price of BTC is an input to the viability
equation of a Bitcoin mining business. And if this input erodes, then the miners
go bankrupt. The need for the Bitcoin network to consume ever vaster amounts of
energy does not magically increase the price of BTC. Because the price of BTC is
an output in an asset valuation equation, where the inputs for this equation are
utility and speculation. The Bitcoin community prides itself in the fact that
Bitcoin can't be changed. The total supply of BTC is capped at 21 million units.
Nobody wants to touch the underlying protocol. That is a feature, apparently.
The idea sounds nice, I think long term though, this is just not how anything
works. And so Bitcoin will either find ever greater fools, or one day, becomes
too heavy to move. And the fact that after 15 years of its existence, nobody is
asking the hard questions, should make everyone being exposed to this network
uncomfortable. Bitcoins security budget is broken. Bitcoin will have to adapt,
or subside eventually.

---

If you haven't heard already, I have to tell you. The documentary "Vitalik: An
Ethereum Story" has been released. This is a movie telling the story of
Ethereum, including all of its vision and struggles. And maybe that is one of
the most beautiful things about Ethereum. It is confronting its struggles. In
that way, Ethereum is the industrious ant preparing for winter. And isn't that
something? If you haven't seen the movie, or if you can't, then go watch the
trailer on YouTube. I found it very moving and inspiring. And understanding the
philosophy of the people building Ethereum, and understanding that their vision
for the future is in some way aligned with my own, makes me very hopeful. And I
think that the best days are yet to come. Those are the early days. And we are
the pioneers.

---

In other news, another interesting L2 rollup was announced recently. It is
called Atlas, and it is built using a custom implementation of the Solana
Virtual Machine. Atlas will settle to Ethereum to access Ethereum’s assets in a
trust minimized fashion. And with that, Atlas will benefit from Ethereum’s
security and censorship resistance. At the end of the day, we will have to see
how all of those L2s earn their right to exist in the first place, and how they
get adopted and used in the real world. For now it is just interesting to see
that more SVM based L2s are being created. The rollup centric roadmap in full
swing!

---

Our number for this week is the number of distinct addresses interacting with
one or multiple L2 rollups in a given week. And that number crossed 10 million
now for the first time. We can't strictly talk about users, because we don't
really know what a user is onchain. We can talk about addresses though. And
there have now been 10 million addresses active within a single week across all
the L2 rollups, which is a crazy amount. Those adoption metrics are steadily
increasing, whatever the ETH price is doing. So fret you not, out there in the
dark. Our Ethereum is going to make it.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001327
