MEMO W32 AUG 2024

> What you see is not all there is. - [xh3b4sd]

The Missing Billionaires, Against the Gods, The Price of Time. Books about money
and finance. Books about wealth and ruin. Books about the art of investing and
knowing thyself. One of those books brought the coin flip challenge to my
attention. The task of that challenge is simple. You have a biased coin that
guarantees you to show heads 60% of the time. You have a budget of 25 Dollars
and 30 minutes of time to flip the coin as often as you like. You can bet any
amount within your budget. When you are wrong with your bet, you lose the amount
of your bet for that round. When you are right, you double the amount that you
put at risk. What do you do? How much do you end up with? If you would like to
do that challenge for yourself, please do not read on, because I am going to
spill all the secrets. So if you want to know what's what, go do the challenge.
And then come back later with your own wisdom. I love those kinds of games
because they ask very simple questions about very important problems that
everyone faces in the world all the time. Those games are about intuition,
psychology, strategy, math, and frankly, common sense that often seems to be not
that common anymore. I heard of a study that showed the average profit across
all participants of the coin flip challenge to be around 250 Dollars. That
represents a ten fold increase of the initial budget. Scholars would want to ask
the question of the optimal strategy here. Gamblers, not the professional kind,
would probably just lose it all. I did the coin flip challenge the other night
on my phone, laying in the dark in my bed. And I was wondering how anyone should
really approach this problem. Here I would like to layout my thought process and
explain what to pay attention to, and what not. The task is to flip a coin. And
because I did it on my phone, the environment in which I found myself in was
rather controlled, call it stable. Those kinds of stable environments guarantee
an almost impecible trade execution. There is not much that can go wrong. Yes, I
could type the wrong betting amount, or select the wrong side of the coin. But
those issues should not impact the outcome of my performance in this case very
much. So trade execution was nothing to worry about this time around. Check.
Then the question was what strategy I should be executing here. And this one was
obvious to me as well, because the task itself told us already what side to bet
on. That side is the 60%, without exception. If you know for certain, in
relative terms, that one very specific thing delivers those 60% outcomes, then
you go with that very specific thing without ever changing your mind. Unless of
course those 60% are not guaranteed anymore. The coin flip challenge guaranteed
those 60% heads and that means you do the same boring thing all the time for
half an hour. No matter what. Having that understanding solved the excruciating
task of coming up with a strategy, because this part is usually where the bulk
of the wealth and the bulk of the ruin is generated. So, execution, check.
Strategy, check. Check, check. Now, there is one thing left. What is that one
thing? That one thing is bet sizing. Scholars will lament that this is part of
the strategy. And you know what? They are probably right. For our intents and
purposes though, we need to talk about it separately, simply because for what
the coin flip challenge is. And so if we know that we simply have to take the
same side of the bet all the time, then the only missing variable here is the
amount that we bet, all the time. This variable, the bet size, can make or break
a strategy. And I would maybe go as far as saying that the bet size is the part
about this particular challenge that gets an outcome close to optimal. Now, in
my case it was the dark of the night, in the comfort of my bed, glued to my
phone. I did not do much of fancy math. I did not calculate probabilities in my
head. I did not try to figure out what the Kelly Criterion has to say about it.
My thought process was simply how to minimize the chance of ruin, given that 4
times out of 10 the biased coin does actually not show up heads. And so I
ballparked it and said ok, I will just bet around 10% all the time and see how
it goes. Execution, check. Strategy, check. Size, check. Check, check, and
check. Now it turned out that 10% was actually the conservative choice. I made a
killing, theoretically, but I could have made way more by taking a little bit
more risk. I heard that you can actually go as high as 20% with your bet size in
this simple case. So how did I do? Remember a study found the average outcome to
be 250 Dollars, starting with 25 Dollars. I ended up with over 2500 Dollars. Ten
times more than the average. I would be curious how you did on your own. So feel
free to hit me up!

---

And the day was 5th of August. Every number on every screen went red in a
cascade of flash crashes, on pretty much all meaningful markets world wide. What
happened? Well, the herd happened. That's what. All kinds of explanations are
thrown around about the Yen carry trade. As a matter of fact, some positions had
indeed to be covered and delevered. But what caused the bottom to fall out
everywhere, were essentially all the second order effects of all the people
being afraid of what all of that actually means and implies for their own bags.
I could not have predicted any of it. But I can understand and appreciate that
fundamentally nothing changed. Not for the world, and not for crypto. Thinking
about it, maybe something has changed. Some of the players out there have no
portfolio anymore. Some people got margin called and blown out of the game. And
the numbers on the screen sent some into midlife crisis uttering words that no
sober person would formulate on a good night's sleep. And to be fair, seeing the
ETH/BTC and SOL/ETH charts in comparison does in fact hurt a lot these days.
Solana's relative strength in price is remarkable compared to Ethereum. I think
certain repricing events are fair. But I do also think that ETH/BTC trading
below 0.05 should be charged with time in prison. And here within lies the
relevant again. What to pay attention to, and what not. That is what makes the
difference. Absent of world war three I would like to call the bottom on the
ETH/BTC monthly here. The latest unknown unknown is out of the way. From here on
out there should be nothing but tailwinds. And in the distance, sirens.

---

Talking more about tokens that don't do anything really, but trade. XRP was
pumping like 20% one day, because Ripple Labs doesn't get sued into oblivion
anymore by the SEC. This is hilarious because, coin up, not due to merit, but
due to no punishment!? Again, that doesn't change any of the lacking
fundamentals and I am patiently waiting for XRP to drop out of the top ten
crypto assets by market cap. It may take a while, but as long as XRP is not
doing anything, this is all noise and irrelevant. Nobody can predict this kind
of price action reliably anyway. Or, I cannot. WIF is proper underperforming now
and all memes seem to get recycled into SOL, the dark forest is extracting value
from the less competent to the more ruthless. That aspect may also explain some
of SOL's additional strength in price action. A lot of the meme coin casino
money joins the frontloading of the hottest alt L1. Without judgement, that line
of thinking checks out for me.

---

My number for the week is 10. And that is the 10 month simple moving average.
This indicator has become a pretty interesting tool for cyclical markets like
crypto. It is obviously not fool proof, this is not a silver bullet, and all the
exceptions apply as always. But, anything that closes below that 10M SMA on a
weekly or monthly candle is a sell. And in reverse, anything that closes above
that 10M SMA on a weekly or monthly is a buy. If you applied this simple
strategy without asking further questions in the prior cycles you would have
outperformed most of the lore appreciatooors on crypto twitter. Anyway, times
are changing and some simple moving average alone will not help you either. So
it will be once again, know thyself, with which I would like to leave you this
week. Onwards!

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2021/0001051
