MEMO W28 JUL 2024

> The way you breathe defines the way you live. - [xh3b4sd]

We have been in the belly of the beast this past week. We have been to Brussels
for EthCC. The heart of Europe and the power centre of the EU. Not to dwell too
much on politics, but to me personally the state of the nation had a rather
rotten smell to it in many different ways. I would summarize my bottom line for
the continent of Europe under the heavy stone of bureaucracy like this. Stupid
games for stupid people! But enough of it, because it was EthCC's time to shine.
One takeaway for me has been that the Ethereum ecosystem, and I think crypto as
an industry at large is a complete cross section of society. This community is
representing almost any type of character in almost any aspect of life. We have
talked to people who do not know what they are doing. We have talked to people
who are outright delusional. We have talked to people who are only here for the
money. We have talked to people who want to build towards a better future. We
have talked to people who are absolutely brilliant. And we have talked to people
who are absolutely lovely. The main conference of EthCC was accompanied with
over 400 side events across all of Brussels. You could go to multiple venues
every day and talk to so many different people from so many different sectors
inside of crypto. The sheer amount of technology projects being built and their
sheer amount of diversity has been really impressive to witness first hand. Yes,
most of them will fail. And yes, many of our experiments will not yield the
desired outcomes at first. Though we have to highlight how much this industry is
flourishing and developing despite all the good, the bad and the ugly. I do not
subscribe to all the naysayer takes on crypto twitter. Instead I am optimistic
for the future of our industry. The best is yet to come!

---

A common thing that people told me around the EthCC side events was that there
are not enough apps in crypto, and how people get tired of infrastructure
projects. In my opinion all of those takes are not more than the repetition of
crypto twitter herd mentality. Saying that there are no crypto apps that people
use completely misses the forest for the trees in my opinion. Statements like
these completely miss the point. My sense is somehow that people wait for
projects to happen like TikTok, but onchain. Or Uber, but onchain. People expect
everyone on this planet to make transactions every day on their favourite
blockchain network. And I honestly think that this is totally not what we are
going to see at the end of the day. Only because you don't like the existing
apps, or only because you don't use them, does not mean that those apps are
useless. In fact, it may only mean that you are missing something, or worse,
that you are willingly ignorant about what is already in front of your eyes. And
that would frankly not be a problem for the industry, but your own problem
alone. As one practical example, cars are very useful. Though not everyone has a
car. And nobody who is not driving would ever say that cars are not useful, or
that the auto industry is useless at large. I think that all applications based
on blockchain technologies will inevitably have financial character, in one form
or another. Most people are not using pipes directly on a daily basis. But
everyone in the civilized world has access to tap water and sanitation
infrastructure. Maybe the real problem is that some people have bet the farm on
pipe manufacturers, and they are seeing that their pipes from their pipe
manufacturers are not yet used in every household. And maybe they will never be
used anywhere. I could see that being a factor. And in similar light, I can also
see how layers of abstractions on top of networks of networks will be
underpinning all financial aspects of live eventually. Because this is simply
what we do and what we are going for here.

---

I came across Rome Protocol since it got funding from Bankless Ventures, among
others. The idea of Rome Protocol is to use Solana as shared sequencer for
Ethereum. I like this idea specifically because shared sequencers require some
form of credible neutrality and inclusion guarantees in order to be useful at
all. For those reasons it is naturally pretty hard to bootstrap shared sequencer
networks, because you have some kind of chicken-egg problem. Shared sequencers
are only used by many if they are credibly neutral. At the same time shared
sequencers are only credibly neutral if they are used by many. Now tapping into
an existing consensus layer like Solana for shared sequencing is one good
addition to the shared sequencer landscape. The only issue with Solana as a
shared sequencer today is that Solana still appears to have outages once in a
while. And what nobody wants to rely on ever, are those kinds of single point of
failures. For that reason I think what we are going to see in the future are
market places of shared sequencers allowing blockchain applications to rely on
fault tolerant sequencer architectures that provide them with 100% uptime and
all other relevant properties catered to individual business models. While I was
in Brussels for EthCC I was talking with some developers of shared sequencer
technologies. And what I took away from our conversations there was that the
potential future demand for sequencing transactions in various ways will likely
be far greater than any one L1 blockchain or ecosystem can ever handle on its
own. And for that reason I think Solana would be a great addition to Ethereum's
shared sequencer landscape. The more the merrier!

---

In the past we have discussed several instances of US regulatory pressures
directed at the crypto industry at large. It is sad and uncommon that a federal
agency like the US SEC goes on an unfounded crusade like we have seen the past
couple of years. The latest development in egregious behaviours has now just
concluded by the SEC closing the investigation into Paxos Dollar. USDP has once
been the 3rd largest stablecoin after USDT and USDC with roughly 23 billion USD
in TVL. But since the SEC issued a Wells Notice to Paxos in February 2023, USDP
almost completely vanished from this industry. In this case, a federal agency
has taken action against a legitimate business, causing that very business to be
destroyed by losing all relevance within its own industry. And the end of it all
is that the government seemingly randomly destroyed economic activity without
any form of due process, and without holding itself accountable for it. As far
as I know, nobody within the SEC is penalized or punished. Nobody within the SEC
has to take their hat and leave. Those events are all outrageous abuses of power
that really no business owner should ever suffer from. The government exists to
serve us, the people. And the only thing being served was a Wells Notice. The
government exists to protect us, the people. And not a single individual has
been protected by the SEC's arbitrary tyranny against a whole industry. The only
light at the end of this tunnel is the overturning of the Chevron doctrine as
discussed in last week's Powerlaw memo. Moving forward, we can only hope that
federal agencies will have less power to baselessly interfere in the economy and
progress of our nations. And we can only hope that congress will start making
better laws in order to prevent misinterpretation of those very laws that we are
all living by.

---

The number this week is 500 million USD. Actually it is a bit more than that.
The news here is that BlackRock's BUIDL fund has now over 500 million USD in
deposits. What is so great about it? What's so great about it, is that the
largest asset manager on this planet is building and expanding new financial
primitives on top of Ethereum mainnet. And there is no stopping it. The next big
milestone for the BUIDL fund will be 1 billion USD in TVL. And that means yes,
TVL does in fact matter. On that note, across all of crypto we can track over
1.8 billion USD in onchain treasuries today. Over 1.3 billion USD, or over 72%
of all tokenized treasury products are managed on Ethereum. So yes. Yes TVL
matters.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2018/0000081#L1
