MEMO W42 OCT 2024

> The amount of wealth you can capture equals the quality of property rights you
> can rely upon. - [xh3b4sd]

What are we doing here? I mean here in this, our industry, the world of
blockchains. What is this crypto thing all about? When you ask that question,
then there will very likely be silence for a moment, followed by, a lot of
words. This question, what crypto is about, is so hard to answer, and I thought
about why that is the case. Imagine you were talking to some farmer in the 15th
century, and imagine you would tell them about DNA. You would go like "here
mate, look at that, that is DNA". And let's be honest, there would very likely
be silence, and probably strange looks too. Whether a 15th century farmer tries
to comprehend DNA, or whether the average person tries to comprehend crypto
today, the reason for all the difficulties involved when trying to grasp foreign
concepts, are many complex layers of abstractions standing between people and
technology. In order to comprehend DNA, humans need to understand what the body
is made of and maybe even how the concept of evolution work. We need to somehow
agree that body tissue is made up of cells, and that cells have a membrane and a
nucleus, which in turn contains the cell's blue print. And then we need to know
how this blue print inside of the cell is comprised of molecules that, by some
miracle, create the structure of life. At this point and several complicated
sentences later, we can see how nobody can just understand DNA. Not even by
today's standards. People today have some common notion of DNA, and it is all
very handwavy. Most of us are very far away from being able to properly
articulate what DNA really is, not to mention how it even works. And then,
coming back to the point above. With all of those layers of abstractions
standing between people and technical concepts like crypto, it is no wonder that
our journey here will turn out to be a generational effort of bending the world
to our will and promises. If you think you know what crypto is, then think
again. Maybe you will end up on a 3 hour podcast getting stuck on the notion of
money. Let me humour you for a moment and allow me to explain what we are doing
here in this industry. Let me try to explain what crypto is, in my own words.
Crypto in my mind is about property rights and verifiability. When you say those
two things to normal everyday-people, then it's already over. Because what do
those things have to do with anything in the lives of ordinary people? And if we
want to understand any of this we have to unwind a lot of complexities once more
in order to explain how life works. So here we go again. Property rights tell us
who owns what. In other words, without property rights, nobody really owns
anything before the law. Property rights build the very foundation for a
civilized society. Property rights allow people to live in their own homes.
Property rights allow everyone to earn their own money. Property rights give
citizens a voice during elections and allow for something that we call free
speech. Property rights make the modern life even possible to begin with. Now,
if you, dear reader, read this in the comfort of your home thinking "well I have
property rights already, crypto does not change any of that", then you may
simply be living the cozy lie of a westerner who has never been exposed to
racism, oppression, war, and all the other funny things that abused power
structures tend to come up with over time. Matter of fact, most people on this
planet would love to have more or stronger property rights. And I would go as
far to argue that everyone in the western world would be best advised to make
sure that our very own institutions get hardend and upgraded over time.
Upgraded so that we can ensure the same luxuries that we were able to enjoy
during our own upbringing for the generations coming after us. If you are not
doing crypto for yourself, then maybe do it for your children. All of that is
already a mouth full, and way more than most can chew. But ok. Here it comes.
Property rights must be verifiable too, for everyone. If you "own" the title on
your house, but nobody can verify that you really do, then effectively you do
not own your house. It's only your property if you can prove it. The punchline
here may simply be this. Blockchains tell us who owns what in a complicated
world. And without making it any more complicated than that, I would love to
hear from you, dear reader, in your own words, what all of this here is about.

---

A question was asked the other day, asking how many transactions per second
Ethereum needs to execute in order to run most of the world economy onchain.
Those kinds of questions come naturally to humans. It is a fair question to ask.
It is just this. The quality of our questions determines the quality of
knowledge that we can acquire by asking them. And I think the above is not a
good question, because it is a counterfactual, just like the observer effect. As
soon as you look at a thing, or do a thing, you change that very thing. So in
one sense, we will never know in advance. What I do know is this though. All
that we are building here with public blockchains enables new economies that
will be vastly different than whatever we are doing today in the sense of
"transactions" throughout the world economy. By recent estimates I think Google
makes about 100 thousand requests per second globally, while Facebook does about
1 billion of them. We will need a million transactions per second across a
unified Ethereum, which is an unthinkable amount of scale at today's standards.
And once we have achieved that level of scale, we will fill that blockspace too.
People will find creative and new ways to use all of the high quality blockspace
that we can give them. We will build stuff that we cannot imagine today using
global consensus, zero knowledge and machine learning technologies. Imagine 1000
L2s with 1000 TPS each. That is a million TPS right there already. And in the
grand scheme of things. That does not sound like a lot to me if we talk decades
from now. And then imagine being bearish ETH with that kind of understanding.

---

When we look back in 100 years time, I think there is a chance that prediction
markets will be defined as precursor for the widely adopted use of information
markets across every aspect of the economy. I say information markets and not
prediction markets here deliberately. What the difference is you ask? Prediction
markets have once again a very specific notion based on how those types of
applications are implemented today. And I think the way we do things in what we
call prediction markets today will not be the last word spoken on this frontier
of innovation. Prediction markets today are actually not predicting much at all,
because they facilitate extractive trading techniques, which is just all too
naturally defined by MEV. The era of information markets will be defined by
staking models that emphasize conviction, which in turn will be based on
competence. In short, the difference between today's prediction markets and
future information markets will be the difference between trading and staking.
Because our societies must surface competence and integrity in order to move
forward, while preventing the guaranteed erosion of the social contract over
generations. I believe that we are going to facilitate this kind of healthy
progress using better information markets like [Uvio] in the future than we have
at our disposal today on an institutional level.

---

There was an interesting crypto report released by a16z recently. It was stating
that as of this year there were more than 600 million holders of crypto
currencies all over the world. Based on this report the transaction volume of
stablecoins in Q2 was more than twice that of Visa. And further, this little
known fact was also interesting to me. While there are hundreds of L1s, L2s and
L3s across all of crypto, way more than half of all builders in this space build
on top of Ethereum. Amidst all of the fierce competition in the space, the
network effects around Ethereum continue to be very strong, and we like that.

---

In other news, the bull market just got 2 years old. The methodology to measure
this is the general market bottom, which for American financial markets and
crypto was printed between Q3 and Q4 in 2022, which was in fact two years ago
already. None of the drama on the timeline reflects the gains that could have
been had, if only the sum of our decisions wouldn't reflect this poorly on us.
Well, it is what it is. So happy second bull market anniversary to all those who
celebrate!

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2024/0001309
[Uvio]: https://testnet.uvio.network
