MEMO W36 SEP 2024

> I hear what you say, but I see what you do. - [xh3b4sd]

The new meta in Ethereum land has apparently been to suggest that we better
reduce the amount of available blobs for data availability, because the fees
generated as revenue on Ethereum are now "too low". When you have a look at the
timeline, then high fees were bearish for Ethereum in 2021, because nobody could
afford to use the chain. Now low fees are bearish for Ethereum in 2024 because
current demand does not burn enough ETH. Those and other misinformed takes can
be witnessed today in the realm of Crypto Twitter. It's all wrong. It's all
backwards. It's all just super dumb and short sighted. The Jevons Paradox tells
us that the falling cost of use induces increased demand to the extend that
resource use inevitably increases eventually. EIP-4844, or Protodanksharding was
rolled out in March 13th this year, which was 6 months ago. The average
transactions per second across the Ethereum ecosystem was then below 100. We are
now making almost 400 TPS consistently, with no signs of slowing down. In fact
MegaETH is making the rounds now as another L2 with an outlook of realtime
blockchain applications and a capacity of 100,000 transactions per second. Any
quality blockspace that we create in this industry will be used eventually,
because such quality blockspace has an inherent value that certain actors are
willing to pay for. When you scale a system to accommodate more usage, you are
not scaling back prematurely again only because scaling limits are not being hit
just yet. That wouldn't make any sense. And so we are simply going to build out
more applications and generate more usage in order to consume all the blobs we
have right now. And then we will scale some more, and use up those blobs as
well. Patience, dear reader.

---

In similar fashion of confusion as described above, we have been hearing
arguments that L2 rollups are parasitic to Ethereum mainnet in a way that those
rollups diminish the valuation of ETH the asset. People are looking at the
underperformance of ETH relative to BTC and see a drawdown of 50% over the past
2 years. ETH/BTC went from a high of 0.08 to a low of 0.04, where it is sitting
at right now. I was wagering the bet that August 2024 will roughly mark the
ETH/BTC bottom, because all of the foreseeable and unforeseeable headwinds out
there have already been dealt with by now. But enough of the financials. The
point I want to make is that those financials are the reasons for unqualified
opinions to spread far and wide. We are hearing that this, that, or the other
thing ought to happen now, in order to make number go up. And none of those
people have apparently ever built anything themselves, which would explain all
of the nonsense we can see on the timeline again today. But let me humour you
with another opinion. L2s are not parasitic. In fact, I think that all the ETH
Killers, all the alternative L1s out there, the Solana's of the world, are now
rather competing against L2s like Arbitrum and Base, instead of Ethereum. We can
see that in metrics of various TVL and Volume categories. L2s are not parasitic
because they extend Ethereum's real estate. And L2s are not parasitic because
they create more opportunities for ETH to be used as money, gas and collateral.
L2s are not parasitic because they are by no means incentivized to become L1s
themselves. I think it is rather the other way around, and time will prove it.
L2s are rather incentivized to grow the pie, by banding together with other L2s
in one global layer of liquidity, because the union of blockspace and its
subsequent opportunities is so much larger than the sum of its parts. That is
Metcalfe's law all over again. That is why we are building networks of networks.
And anyone trying to tell you a different story has in my mind not understood
how network effects work. The joke about all of the heat that Ethereum mainnet
and its L2 rollups are catching, especially from the Solana and Bitcoin
community, is that people from those same communities are already building
towards their own Layer 2 solutions. The audacity and hypocrisy in our circles
is truly something else.

---

I guess it always helps to explain technical concepts, over and over again. One
argument that the L2 naysayers like to repeat goes like this. Well, L2s are not
incentivized to decentralize because they make all their money with sequencer
fees, because this is where MEV is captured. For the attentive Powerlaw reader
those types of arguments should be rather obvious to dismantle, and I gave most
of it away already above. But let me spell it out again. As far as I am aware,
there is nothing like sequencer fees in the first place. L2 operators run
sequencers because they want to give users a way to consume blockspace.
Sequencing is a service provided for free. It is true that sequencing is able to
capture MEV, because sequencing very naturally decides how transactions are
ordered. The default and most obvious algorithm to sort those incoming
transactions is simply to include them as they arrived. Today, none of the L2s
out there capture any of the potential MEV for themselves as far as I am aware.
We have mentioned it here in the past several times, blockchains are no
incentivized to benefit from MEV in a financial way because it reduces the
quality of blockspace that users consume. Just imagine two different medival
trails between two villages. One trail is known to be full of thieves and
wolves. On that trail people are known to get robbed and eaten alive. The other
trail can be walked safely. Which one of those trails do we think will be
crossed more often? It will be the trail that is safe to pass without getting
molested. The same is true for blockchain networks. Those that do not rely on
robbing users have a fighting chance to survive in a sea of open source
competition. And so as Justin Drake has explained again in the recent Reddit AMA
of Ethereum Researchers, L2 rollups like Base make most of their fee revenue
through congestion fees, which is a result of high blockspace demand. Congestion
simply means that there is more demand than there is supply. That has nothing to
do with MEV. MEV is typically achieved by reordering transactions in a block
which would be something a sequencer would be able to do, but as we elaborated
already, to the best of our knowledge this practice is not institutionalized,
and it will probably not be institutionalized, ever, for the reasons that we
outlined above as well. Now, I am not saying there is no MEV on L2s. What I am
saying is that the incentives for L2s are to grow the pie, to extend Ethereum's
real estate, and to contribute to a flourishing Ethereum ecosystem, because that
is what creates more opportunities than any single player could achieve for
themselves. And again, anyone trying to tell you a different story has in my
mind not understood how network effects work. A unified Ethereum experience is
coming. It may take a minute, but the most brilliant and most gritty people in
this industry are all working on a future version of the world, in which the
highest quality blockspace can be consumed within the Ethereum ecosystem. That
is what I can sense every single day in this industry.

---

And the number for this week should be 0.033, which is the predicted ETH/BTC
ratio by the end of the year, based on some podcast host that I was not able to
get a hold of. I think this prediction is unrealistic, and I would have liked to
bet money on that outcome. Just two problems. I could not get in contact with
the person who has made the prediction, and, I was not able to deploy the app
just yet on which I would have liked to lock in that bet. More on the app that I
am building right now soon, I promise. Until then, we keep wandering this
wilderness.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2020/0000997
