MEMO W45 NOV 2024

> Every failure you experience in your life is designed and architected by
> yourself. - [xh3b4sd]

A regulatory sea change will be unfolding over the next 4 years for the crypto
industry, and we cannot understate how big its effects are going to be. For at
least the next 4 years we are going to win so hard that you will get tired of
winning. One day you will say that you are so tired of winning and that you
can't keep winning, and then we will win some more. Winning here means simply
being treated in a fair and competitive way by the powers that be. There is zero
reason for rogue regulators to prosecute one faithful key player of an
innovative industry after another, only to lose those battles in court time and
time again. There is zero reason to waste taxpayer money in baseless law suits
targeted against an entire industry. There is zero reason to alienate 50 million
US Americans who hold digital assets and declare those individuals as political
enemies. This attitude is like being against people who own dogs. That makes
zero sense. There is further zero reason for a political party to create
millions of enemies without any tangible upside whatsoever. There is zero reason
to indoctrinate faithful everyday people with the idea that "democracy" itself
is at stake in what is in fact a democratic election to begin with. None of
those and many more of the same stupid mistakes make any sense. And yet, the
Democratic party took every single opportunity in the playbook to mess up the
presidential race, and with it the election itself as a result. The people may
be stupid, but they are not that stupid. And I am so glad that the people came
together in order to make a statement that is unmistakable. Red wave. Landslide.
Donald Trump won the popular vote, the electoral vote, the Republicans win the
senate and most likely even the house. In sports there is often a difference
between "we won" and "they lost". We can win based on our own merits, or because
the other team was simply even more incompetent than we have been. I think the
latter happened here during the 2024 US Presidential Election. Most people, I
think, did not vote for Trump, but rather, voted against Hillary back in 2016,
and now again against Kamala, because this oligarch republic is not the
democracy that the Democrats claim to represent. We wrote about the very likely
Trump victory here in the Powerlaw memo back in May of this year. We predicted
half a year in advance that crypto will move the needle during this presidential
race. 50 million Americans own digital assets in one form or another. In some
swing states you only need a couple 10 thousand votes on top to win. I cannot
show you hard evidence at this moment in time, because the data is just not
available, but those numbers at those scales tell me that it is most probable,
that alienating a large portion of the voter base for no tangible upside
whatsoever does indeed make a difference where it matters most. So, leaning hard
into crypto and technology for that matter was key for Donald Trump to win. You
do not need the masses to win in America. You only need to tip the scales in
some specific areas of the country, which evidently happened here multiple
times, with key swing states captured like Georgia, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
Moving forward, crypto as an industry will become decriminalized. The US will
become open for business for entrepreneurs of our beloved industry. And
innovation can once more take place again in the United States of America.
Higher!

---

The key takeaway for the traders amongst us is the overall market reaction as
the Presidential Election results became ever more certain. The dynamics at play
here showed surprisingly a great deal of information asymmetry amongst market
participants. Some may have anticipated increased volatility, but the direction
and magnitude at which markets moved eventually was rather unexpected for most
people I would say. The total crypto market cap is up roughly 300 billion USD
post election. The US stock market is up about 1 trillion USD in the same time
frame. By most estimates the US election outcome was tied in a coinflip, and so
the market as a whole was positioned rather defensively, exactly because of
those uncertain odds. Days before the election took place, most markets repriced
lower for what was not known to happen next. And if you take anything away from
this Powerlaw memo, then let it be this one thing. Markets hate uncertainty. In
that light, it is then no wonder that markets went lower pre, and much higher
post election, especially if you were convinced which side to lean on. The
timing of market movements is also interesting to look at. While traditional
media outlets were comparatively slower to report results of key swing states,
prediction markets and pure online sources aggregated by Google were so much
more precice and efficient to acknowledge election outcomes. And so during the
early European morning hours of Wednesday the 6th of November, markets ripped.
What we can learn here too is that once again mechanism design and a general
understanding of the system dynamics at play are hugely advantageous. If you
know what is at stake, and if you know the more likely outcome, and if you know
the expected ripple effects, and if you know what swing states are, and if you
know which sources to trust and if you know when to expect the most relevant key
information, well then you have an edge like no other. Study mechanism design.
Lesson in there.

---

Our financial system is so old, opaque and convoluted that it is hard to reason
what is actually happening on the ground. Which is also why I cannot find more
accurate and up-to-date data about the first State level pension fund to put ETH
on their balance sheet. And not only is the State of Michigan incredibly based
by being the first known State pension fund to ever do that, but also does the
State of Michigan hold more ETH than it holds BTC, with 11 million USD to 7
million USD exposure respectively. This is an incredible development, and I hope
it will not have been the last of its kind. As we open up and decentralize our
ever more digital economies, they become more transparent and permissionless, as
long as economic activity unfolds on public blockchains like Ethereum. This is
the future that we are fighting for here all day every day. And if you still
think our cute little blockchain thing is niche and nobody cares after all.
Well, for one, we just won the US election. You are welcome. And two, Bitwise
research is showing in their Q3 market report that 13 out of 22 global financial
institutions are actively working on tokenization on top of public blockchains,
read Ethereum. You can ignore us all day long. We are going Higher.

---

One word. Hardness. This past week we could read how Citi Group integrated with
Ethereum to achieve near realtime cross border transactions, enabled for 19,000
institutional clients across 180 countries. Reading the respective reports it
dawned on me why the rollup centric roadmap is so critical for Ethereum to
become most relevant to the future financial system. It is because of Ethereum's
deliberately designed hardness properties. The rollup centric roadmap says that
anything can be build on top of a solid foundation, the L1. Its hardness makes
Ethereum the most reliable focal point for any form of value transfer. And only
because of this hardness, this reliability, the world's institutions are enabled
to build on top of Ethereum in the first place. Not on Bitcoin, not on Solana,
and not on Ripple, but on Ethereum!

---

At last some stone cold market commentary. As I am writing this ETH broke
through 3k. SOL broke through 200. BTC dominance is back below 60% and my money
is on this new trend dynamic to continue in light of a new regulatory regime on
the horizon, which, frankly, favours utility tokens. My predictions for the year
of 2024 as published back in January remain intact. BTC not over 100k. ETH not
over 6k. SOL not flipping ETH and Eigenlayer accelerating the usage of crypto
economic security on top of Ethereum. Next target for ETH/BTC is to get back
above 0.04 because that kind of level makes no sense at all. One word. Higher!

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2018/0000049#L1-L2
