MEMO W07 FEB 2024

> When you do not give everything today, there might not be a tomorrow. -
> [xh3b4sd]

A thought I want to lead with this week is a seemingly lucky accident unfolding
in front of our eyes. Based on rough estimates, there have been about 8,000
generations of humans wandering this planet for the past 200,000 years. During
the past 10 years we have seen two very different technologies emerge in
meaningful ways. One of them are blockchain networks. The other is machine
learning. As of today it may not appear like blockchain networks and machine
learning have much to do with one another. I think we are going to need both
technologies, at the same time, in order to preserve the human race long term.
The reason for this are all the coordination problems arising from competent
agents that are able to operate autonomously within free markets. Following
along those lines of thinking we are opening up a huge can of worms by making
several assumptions. Let us assume we need free markets. We need them because
they brought us the civilized world that many enjoy today. Let us assume machine
learning leads to competent autonomous agents. It does because machine learning
models are mere open source commodities that anyone can train and run. Let us
assume blockchain networks solve for coordination within adversarial
environments. They do because blockchain networks secure hundreds of billions in
economic security already, all the while the smartest minds on the planet try to
exploit them every single day. Moving forward, competent autonomous agents are
unlikely to be regulated away by the rule of law. Not only is the rule of law an
insufficient tool to address this particular problem, but also, removing machine
learning from your toolbox represents the lack of competitive advantage that no
nation state can do without anymore on the geopolitical stage. We cannot do
without machine learning anymore, which means that we have to address the
problem of living with it. This is all so fascinating to me because the solution
for living inside a machine learning enabled world turns out to be the very
coordination technology that, by accident, happens to be developed at the exact
time that we need it the most. We have been here for 200,000 years and while we
were stumbling into the most powerful technology after the atomic bomb, it just
so happens that we are also stumbling into its required counterpart at the very
same time. We get to ask now how this kind of confluence is even possible to
occur. The word confluence is defined as the junction of two rivers, especially
rivers of approximately equal width. And we are left here wondering how the two
most significant rivers of our lifetime can possibly merge into something that
gives us a fighting chance on our evolutionary trail. The human mind is quite
bad at comprehending large quantities, but, the magnitude of the paradigm shifts
unfolding during our lifetime is as monumental as it can be. The value
proposition that blockchain networks have to offer for the human race are so
vast, we cannot put a price tag on it. And we are only at the beginning of it
all. Slowly, and then all at once. Talk about magic.

---

Back to some boring numbers. Total crypto marketcap hit the 2 trillion mark
again since we lost it back around April 2022. On Ethereum we saw a new high of
over 20 million USD generated in fees within a single day. Blockchains sell
blocks. ETH/USD broke up into the resistance range between 1700 and 3300. It
will be interesting to observe whether it can manage to stay there. On a global
scale it looks like the 4 year liquidity cycle is in full effect. Just like
clock work. On a cautionary note, Jeff Bezos sold 4 billion USD in Amazon shares
this past week. Those kind of things matter eventually if markets get into more
overheated territory.

---

I noticed a couple of days ago, that an interesting form of governance attack
has happened recently. There was a proposal up for voting in the ApeDAO
community. My rough understanding is that the vote decided about a particular
technology to be used by the ApeDAO community. Polygon appeared to have bought a
bunch of APE tokens in order to vote for the very technology that Polygon itself
benefits from the most. This was not a vote of merit. This was a vote of self
interest. A clear cutthroat executive decision. It's kind of funny, but I came
to wonder how immature our governance mechanisms still are, to allow short term
incentivized actors to move the needle like that. It does not take much to
imagine how some form of time weighted governance could potentially mitigate
such governance attacks to happen in the first place. We know that whale games
are being played all the time. So I am wondering why nobody has come up with a
better solution for this yet. I am sure that time weighted governance brings its
own problems with it. In any event I would be curious to see more studies and
experiments in this field.

---

Reporting from the Farcaster front again. It looks like mints are the new likes
in consumer crypto. We can frame a mint as a superlike that may signal stronger
preference and creator support. I am not fully sold that NFT mints solve all of
our problems just yet. I think that especially monetization will always work in
powerlaw distributions, and NFTs will not change that. That means, you are not
likely to earn more money only because you are using NFTs. That is not the
point. The point of NFTs will rather be ownership, reputation and loyalty in the
digital age. Those aspects provide communities with a vast design space that is
still mostly undiscovered. If we believe that the world economy will operate on
blockchain networks in the future, which we do, then NFTs are cookies on
steroids, and you will like it.

[xh3b4sd]: https://github.com/xh3b4sd/content/blob/master/philosophy/2020/0000590
