I got into The Culture Code, written by Daniel Coyle. I love this one. The
author did a couple of years researched for this book and interviewed high
performing teams in all kinds of different fields. NBA teams, diamond robbers,
Navy Seals, restaurant owners, movie makers and so on. The book describes what
high performing teams have in common, what drives them and what kills them. Lots
of examples are provided based on real life situations. A concept called
belonging cues is described. These are created by signals of communicating
individuals. Signalling wildly and dynamically across teams is a good indicator
that correlates with high team performance. You find this for instance in most
cross functional teams. Belonging cues are created to establish sympathy by
leveraging all kinds of aspects of body language, empathy and how something is
actually said. The tone makes the music so to speak. You need a strong
foundation for belonging cues, which is for instance a safe place where people
feel welcomed and appreciated, even when raising difficult concerns. A place in
which you can de-breathe in military terms. In most healthy and high performing
teams there are no ranks, no titles and no egos. Important is to transport ideas
like: "tell me what you need and I help you", "you are part of this team", "we
have high standards here", "you can reach these standards", "we go through this
together". Another interesting aspect, amongst all the others, is the concept of
catchphrases teams establish within their internal vocabulary. A short and crisp
saying expressing a specific sentiment transporting specific values. You know
some of them: "get after it", "go get some", "keep grinding", "have fun", "let's
roll", "work hard, be nice". Culture is a tremendously important good in social
groups which we are all part of. We all decide how culture should look like. As
good and important as culture might be, one aspect of it always puzzles me. So
while we identify with culture, it is often our identity that causes
interdisciplinary problems we face in our lives. The may be toxic cultural
properties we identify with and discovering them helps a great deal ensuring the
health of a team or any social group. The Culture Code is one of the books I am
keen to get into again in the future as it makes me think and adds value to my
own framework of reference.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Culture-Code-Hoerbuch/B0789YLNXY
• https://twitter.com/danielcoyle
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catchphrase
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frame_of_reference
