I got into Biology and Human Behavior, written by Robert Sapolsky. His style of
presentation was super compelling to me and his way of bringing serious
information across in a funny way makes it quite easy to learn something
interesting about how we work on a biological level. The book is cut into
lectures round about 30 minutes each. You get a little crash course in cell
biology. Neurons are focused on in particular during the first chapters.
Sapolsky explains how a neuron looks like, from its dendrides to synaptic
terminals. Neural communication on the bio chemical level and implications of
action potentials follow throughout the book. Later, evolution of behaviour and
genetic influences in certain species is explained. The book goes all towards
aggression in humans in the latter chapters. One takeaway for me is that humans
are not against aggression per se. We like the right kind of aggression in the
right social context and mostly agree on that over the board. A common example
would be a certain punishment executed for breaking certain rules. With that, a
couple of game theory basics along the lines of the prisoner's dilemma are
briefly touched as well in the book. On the biological level, our genes only
provide an informational blueprint to implement certain traits and functions.
How this blueprint materializes is heavily influenced by the environment. This
can be shown in studies of twins sharing the exact genetic copy of the other. In
that way something like aggression is not caused purely by genes but rather
indirectly amplified by more complex signals and processes in our body as it
interacts with its environment. I found particularly interesting how amygdala
and frontal cortex play a role in balancing out behaviour and decision making.
The frontal cortex in humans is heavily responsible for long term planning. We
can postpone gratification of an inhibited action so we can benefit from the
sacrifice in the future. The frontal cortex is only fully functional round about
our 25th year after birth. That also explains why teenagers are teenagers in
certain ways. Biology and Human Behavior is super interesting and quite
entertaining overall. I need to listen to the audiobook again at some point to
better absorb all information provided.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Biology-and-Human-Behavior-The-Neurological-Origins-of-Individuality-2nd-Edition-Hoerbuch/B00DG6FBJU
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Sapolsky
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuron
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NNnIGh9g6fA&list=PL848F2368C90DDC3D&index=1
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2bnSY4L3V8s
