I got into The Man Who Solved the Market, written by Gregory Zuckerman. The
story being told here is mind blowing. Completely crazy. Wild west
mathematicians seek out to fight windmills and change the way of
institutionalized investing forever. Jim Simons, one of the now wealthiest and
most influential men of our times, was treated as the project of his mother. She
made sure he is going places and planted the seeds of ambition, which brought
him incredibly far. Getting his PHD in mathematics, Simons cracked some enemy
encryption codes for the military during his early career. He earned a serious
reputation among mathematicians but was still somehow never really "one of
them". He wanted more. It happened that Simons got into stock market trading and
was ever since obsessed with the idea of automating the process of investing.
Over decades he and his hedge fund Renaissance Technologies developed and
deployed quantitative models to predict short and mid-term trends in all kinds
of financial markets. Their efforts lead the usage of machine learning and high
frequency trading in the industry. The arguably best performing hedge fund in
the world, medallion fund, achieves returns of annually round about 50%. The
medallion fund though, is only accessible to employees of Renaissance
Technologies. Derivatives of the medallion fund are accessible to institutional
and other types of investors, but these never perform the same. Simons and his
partners became so wealthy and influential they changed the trajectory of the
world's development all together. The political affairs of one of his partners,
Robert Mercer, lead to Cambridge Analytica, Brexit and Donald Trump. Simons was
always bothered with these movements as he is one of the biggest private backers
of the democrats in the states. The book is actually just fresh out of the
printing press and insanely up to date with the world's recent developments. The
stories being told here are so gripping and sometimes shocking I really enjoyed
the ride, even though in agony and disbelieve at times.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/The-Man-Who-Solved-the-Market-Hoerbuch/0593148193
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Simons_(mathematician)
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Renaissance_Technologies
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Mercer
