I got into Deep Work, written by Cal Newport. Motivation of this one is to
highlight benefits of distraction free environments. Distraction free does not
mean completely without distractions though, as certain distractions can be used
in creative ways to improve cognitive performance and boost creativity. Deep
Work in that sense is the work achieved in an environment ideally set up for the
task at hand. Cognitive demanding work should happen in some sort of isolation.
That is, being isolated from push notifications, TV or social media, which
occasionally attracts attention and thus drains mental capacity, which is then
missing for the task at hand. Contrary to that there are certain office designs
where collaboration is promoted by open spaces in which people dynamically come
together and be purposefully distracted all the time by other ideas in order to
promote some sort of natural creativity. One interesting aspect explained in the
book was how our brains are used throughout the day and which implications our
own task scheduling has on performance. Ideally we should activate different
brain regions throughout the day and not only always make use of the same neural
patterns. Therefore context switching in that sense can be beneficial to some
extend. Another concept explained is active mediation which I would rather
describe as productive noise. This happens every day to me where I ponder on
some idea or problem while I am cooking or sort out some other less demanding
task. I basically daydream towards the solution of a problem. Just a little bit
over longer periods of times until the riddle is solved in a kind of reflective
way. This practise has its own pros and cons though. Deep Work is quite nice for
people being interested in the topic of focus and concentration. I wouldn't
recommend it to everyone though as you naturally live most of the proposed best
practises already in your professional live, in case you do.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Deep-Work-Hoerbuch/B01CYLJ49U
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cal_Newport
