I got into Rich Dad Poor Dad, written by Robert Kiyosaki. I found out about
Robert Kiyosaki via YouTube where he is pretty present to sell his shit to the
masses. His personal story, be it real or made up, caught my attention. He
provides narratives and tries to press on the issue that people lack financial
literacy. When Kiyosaki grew up he had two father figures who couldn't be more
different. One dad was caught in the economical rat race, and the other was
thriving financially. The book tells the story of Kiyosaki growing up being
confronted with these totally different world views rich dad and poor dad gave
him. It took me a little bit to get behind his argumentation. The key take aways
are round about the difference between good and bad debt and the difference
between an assets and a liabilities. Good debt is a loan with wich you finance
your business. Bad debt is a loan with which you buy a car. An asset is a house
you rent to other tenants. A liability is a house in which you live yourself.
Kiyosaki describes balance sheets and cash flow best practises and also tells
about his own experiences he made with all kinds of deals he made throughout his
life. I liked his stories a lot, especially the ones about his childhood and his
own experiences of becoming financially literate. It is only that once in a
while some pretty shady tendencies flow with his attitude which you clearly
notice when he starts talking about of what a great dude Donald Trump is.
Anyway, one thing I liked was that "job" is an acronym for Just Over Broke,
which points to the economical rat race. Another new thing for me was the Cone
Of Learning, which is a pyramid trying to explain how humans learn, which they
do most effectively through experiences. I learned quite a bit about what it
means to be financially literate and that I liked a lot. This coin here has two
sides though, and one must make up their own mind to not fall for some rather
questionable ideas.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Rich-Dad-Poor-Dad-20th-Anniversary-Edition-Hoerbuch/197869167X
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Kiyosaki
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edgar_Dale
