I got into Lifespan, written by David Sinclair. The message this one brings
across is fantastic. It basically says that aging is a disease and that our
societies do no treat it like that is appalling. There is a difference between
lifespan and healthspan. While we managed to upper the lifespan of people, we
have a really hard time to align peoples' healthspan accordingly. Almost anyone
must witness the challenges of family members getting older and mostly sicker at
the same time. In certain western countries people are simply kept alive for the
sake of it without little quality of life or vitality during their last decade
or so. David Sinclair is a biologist and professor for genetics at the Harvard
Medical School where he and his teams focus on research of aging mechanisms on a
cellular level. Their goal is to slow down aging and even reverse it eventually.
The book describes the latest findings of scientific research and their
impressive results. Considering what we know now and which technological
advances work together, conservative estimations go as far as stating that the
first human, becoming 150 years old and beyond, was already born. So far there
was no consistent explanation of why we age. Sinclair, among others developed
the Information Theory of Aging. Simply put, reproductive information on
cellular levels gets lost over time due to various reasons and mechanisms. We
got a couple of problems to solve in order to counter aging successfully. We
need to prevent or cleanup senescent cells, which are also called zombie cells.
We need to obtain genetic information for further reproductivity. We need to
regrow damaged or lost cells and we need to boost cellular survival circuits.
Especially the latter is measurably promoted by exposure to cold, reduction of
calorie intake, and certain supplements like Metformin, NAD and NMN. One weird
thing that caught me and sticks with me for quite some time now is the fact that
we have more sensory input of our cars than our bodies. We have almost no idea
what is really going on inside our mortal shells, and I think that has to change
somehow. The last chapters of the book where a bit more focused on moral and
economical implications of prolonged lifespans. The way these particular
chapters were researched and written did not resonate so well with me. The
content provided there was a bit wild, unstructured and too poor in parts for my
taste and understanding of the world. The first two thirds of this book are
freaking crazy though. So Lifespan goes into my toplist and is certainly a
recommendation from my side. I enjoyed the audiobook so much most of the time as
Sinclair is also a pretty neat narrator. The book provides a couple of
lighthouses for a pretty decent future and the bare possibilities make me so
excited of what has yet to come.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Lifespan-Hoerbuch/000829237X
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Andrew_Sinclair
• https://twitter.com/davidasinclair
• https://lifespanbook.com
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEz1P4i1P7s
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZGLL77wYxe8
• https://drive.google.com/file/d/1SWpbAuQZ2fLq_LVSZy23WxY2vt_vN6I-/view
