I got into Principles, written by Ray Dalio. What you get here is the full dose
of navigating through life like operating a fine tuned machine. The amount of
advice given here is not comprehensible in one shot. Principles is probably one
of the view bibles one may consult throughout one's lifetime. The book tells the
story of Dalio learning to crawl, walk and run in the world of businesses. And
then it wasn't so much the book that impressed me like crazy, but the person
behind it. Ray Dalio achieved enormous success with his Hedge Fund firm
Bridgewater Associates. The way he did it though is remarkable. From the book we
get the narrative of meaningful work, meaningful relationships and radical
transparency. What counts at Bridgewater is the best idea, not the role or rank
of the person who has it. They run an idea meritocracy and live it to a crazy
extend. The Bridgewater folks created tools like the Coach and the Dot Collector
app. Unfortunately I did not find something to play around with but I like their
ideas. The Coach app apparently asks you to write down why you made certain
decisions and maps them over time so that it can predict suggestions for
decisions you have to do in the future. That way you learn to make better
decisions because you actively reflect on them and their reasons behind the
decisions you made. The Dot Collector app is used in meetings to figure out how
to move forward. Everyone gives votes and sees votes of all the others when
trying to come up with decisions collectively. You then get a better idea about
the validity and believability of arguments and the people making them. The Dot
Collector app then graphs votings and ideas in e.g. heatmaps and derives final
conclusions based on that data driven process. I love these ideas. Another tool
used at Bridgewater are Baseball Cards. There is a Baseball Card for everyone in
the company stating strengths and weaknesses of each individual. These
information are used to distribute tasks and projects to where they belong to
best, or to allocate team members in the right place. One thing is for sure, the
evolution of the individual and the system as a whole must be one of the top
priorities in an ever changing environment. I lost myself in quite a couple of
videos from and about Ray Dalio. Two of my favourites are How The Economic
Machine Works and Principles For Success. There is so much valuable information
in this book that your head wants to explode. And this may be its weakness in
the end. The last chapters are so packed with all kinds of stuff it is hard to
go through it. That is also why I had sometimes 4 books running in parallel just
to get some fresh wind once in a while. Anyway, top notch.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Principles-Hoerbuch/B0757VTTB7
• https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Dalio
• https://www.ted.com/speakers/ray_dalio
• https://www.youtube.com/user/Bridgewater
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHe0bXAIuk0
• https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9XGUpQZY38
