I got into Talking To Strangers, written by Malcolm Gladwell. The book is
impressive. Its structure and cases are so profound, you get a real idea of how
much work it must have been to produce it. The opinions swinging with it are
sometimes a bit single sided and idealized though, which is why I wasn't so much
blown away after all. Talking to strangers portraits how easily social systems
can be exploited. Often so because people are willingly by-standing and
rationalising away any weirdness passing by. Nodding and smiling in uncertainty
and self-consumption. Because it is easier to default to truth. Because the
world is not perfect. Because matters are so complicated. Because the nay sayers
are wrong anyway. Because it can't be that bad. Because you just have to be a
little bit more brave now. Because. The book made me sick at some point and even
stole my sleep. Once in a while, it left a bitter taste of the insufficiencies
in human communication without which we wouldn't have come so far as
civilization. Because, the alternative world we would need to live in would be
way much worse. Like, you better do not look too closely, so we can live our
lives in the sweet spot of cultural ignorance. Because it is better that way.
Because. That bitter taste, that feeling, it is not pleasant and I can
understand why almost nobody wants to risk a look under the carpet. We need to
talk to strangers, every day, but we are utterly terrible at doing it. The
signal to noise ratio in social interactions is overwhelming and we pick up on
cues we think are important, but essentially play ourselves more often than not.
This is because we do not have the slightest idea about the social reality of
our counterparts we are dealing with. Anything we notice might just not have the
meaning we attribute to it, which may cause a fundamental misunderstanding
between each other. If there is anything to take away from this book, then that
I have to be way more thoughtful in my approach of talking to strangers.

• https://www.audible.de/pd/Talking-to-Strangers-Hoerbuch/1549150340
• https://twitter.com/Gladwell
